#### What Is the Maturity of My Business Capabilities?

**What** - Rate your business capabilities for Maturity
**Who** - Enterprise Architects, Business Strategists, IT Strategists
**How** - Ardoq Surveys

Understanding how your capabilities are implemented is the first step in answering a more important question: How well are they implemented?

Answering that means making a qualitative judgement on the assets we just mapped to our capabilities. What is the quality of my IT systems? Do I have the skills I need? Are my departments adequately resourced?

As before, you need to do this in the knowledge that there is a cost to excellence and resources are finite. Getting a perfect score across the board is neither practical nor (probably) desirable. So the question we’re trying to answer here is “where do I invest for the greatest impact?”.

#### With that in mind, now work through your model scoring each capability on the following scale:

1. **No Capability** - This means your organization has no systems, processes or skills to realize this capability. That’s not automatically a bad thing: If it’s a new area you’re moving into, then all it means is you need to ramp up your resources in this space. If you use this in conjunction with the market differentiation rating, it should give you a good idea of what your acquisition strategy should be (e.g. buy versus build). Either way, the fact it’s on your capability map at all means that it’s something your organization wants to be able to do.

2. **Limited Capability** - Your organization has processes, systems or skills to realize this capability, but they are immature or hard-to-reproduce. This is often the case when the capability is very immature: For example, you may have run a proof-of-concept for a new product or service but processes are ad-hoc and knowledge largely sits in the heads of a few ex- perts. Conversely, it may be a long-established capability whose maturity has declined, either through loss of resources or underinvestment.

3. **Developing Capability** - Here your organization has stable or reproducible processes or skills to realize this capability although they are not yet efficient. They are, however, repeatable, so your ability to run this part of your organization in a ‘steady-state’ is not in question. Bear in mind that this may be fine – again, if this is not a capability you choose to compete on. Having the ability to perform it in a reliable manner may be all you require; but if it is a differentiating capability, then there’s work to be done.

4. **Mature Capability** - Your organization has stable, reproducible and performance-managed processes, systems or skills to realize this capability. In this case the capability is both stable and efficient. You probably have some kind of performance frame- work you use to monitor it and ensure it meets organizational objectives. You may have internal or use external standards to ensure it complies to quality standards or legislation. In any case, your ability to perform this capability is controlled and therefore predictable.

5. **Optimized Capability** - In this case your organization has re-producible, and efficient and continuously-adaptive processes, processes or skills to realize this capability. The key words here are continuously-adaptive: whereas ‘mature’ capabilities are managed for performance, ‘optimized’ capabilities are able to adapt and re- configure themselves in response to market or environmental changes – for example, a product pricing capability that can anticipate trends in consumer demand, or customer service process- es that reconfigure themselves for high demand volumes.

#### Of course, there are many subjective judgements in rating the maturity of your capabilities. You may find yourselves re-evaluating your scores down the line. That’s fine.

But putting your best view of capability maturity tell a compelling story about where to focus your organization’s resources.

Now you can see both what you need and what you have in the same view.

