## Technology Catalog Domain
The technology catalog domain meets the need to record and managed the use of commercial technologies or technology standards within the organization.
    - Components in this domain represent standards or master copies which may be deployed in multiple places within the organization.
    - Therefore the domain is not an inventory of deployed applications, technology services, servers and devices and so on, but a catalog of the technologies available to the organization.
    - It can be used to store information such as software or standard versions and lifecycle dates (e.g. out of support date) in a single place.
## Message Format Component
A message format component is a standardized and repeatable data structure designed to transmit data from one IT system to another.
    - It may be defined as part of an interface or API response. Common formats include XML and JSON documents.
## Technology Product Component
A technology product component is any commercially-offered item of software, hardware or firmware which can be deployed to provide one or more business capabilities or used to build an IT system by providing one or more technology capabilities.
    - It’s important to emphasize that the technology product component type represents the master copy or make/model of an item of technology and not its deployed instances which are modeled as applications, technology services or servers, for example.
    - So this component type is used to build a master list of product, version and even -dot version or patch level information for any commercial item of software (from ERP systems to operating systems), or makes and models of firmware or devices.
## Language / Library Component
A language / library component is a computer language or syntax or set of predefined functions that can be used to build software systems.
