Just as component types are grouped by different domains, reference types also fall into common categories according to the type of relationship they represent.
## Structure References
Structure references represent a persistent relationship or configuration between two components.
    - Parent-Child - Represents that one component is an exclusive part or sub-component of one other component, and not of any other components.
        - Business Capability (is a part of) Business Capability.
    - Is Connected To (Is Connected To) - Represents that a component has a persistent or non-directional link to another component.
        - Data Entity - Is Connected To > Data Entity. Server - Is Connected To > Server.
    - Deploys (Is Deployed To) - Represents that a component is an instance or copy of another component, or uses an instance or copy in its configuration or operation.
        - Application - Deploys > Code Library.
    - Locates (Is Located At) - Represents that a component is located at an address or coordinate defined by another component.
        - Location – Locates > Organization Unit.
    - Realizes (Is Realized By) - Represents that a component implements the logical requirements, behaviors or characteristics defined by another component.
        - Technology Service – Realizes > Technical Capability.
    - Supports (Is Supported By) - Represents that the operation of one component is a requirement or precondition for the operation of another.
        - Server – Supports > Application. Application – Supports > Process.
## Behaviour References
Behaviour references represent a dynamic interaction over time between two components. This may change the state, configuration or behaviour of one or both of those components.
    - Accesses (Is Accessed By) - Represents that a component reads or modifies the state of another component in situ.
        - Business Capability - Accesses > Data Entity. Customer Segment - Accesses > Digital Channel.
    - Flows To (Flows From) - Represents a repeated uni- or bidirectional flow of information or material between two components.
        - Process – Flows To > Process Application – Flows To > Database
    - Impacts (Is Impacted By) - Represents that a component changes or has the potential to change the structure, operation or performance of another component.
        - Risk - Impacts > Business Capability. Initiative – Impacts > Organization Unit.
## Temporal references
Temporal references represent a time-based relationship between two components where the lifecycle of one component has an effect or dependency on the lifecycle of another.
    - Has Successor (Is Succeeded By) - Represents that a component is succeeded, replaced or has a time-based dependency on another component.
        - Application - Has Successor > Application
## Role References
Role references represent the specific responsibilities or behaviours a party (person or organization) has in relation to a component.
    - Is Expert In (Has Expert) - Represents that a component has a high level of knowledge of another component.
        - Person - Is Expert In > Business Capability.
    - Consumes (Is Consumed By) - Represents that a component consumes or potentially consumes or gains value from another component.
        - Persona - Consumes > Value Proposition Organization Unit - Consumes > Contract
    - Owns (Is Owned By) - Represents that a component has overall responsibility for another component.
        - Product - Is Owned By > Person. Application - Is Owned By > Organization Unit.
    - Supplies (Is Supplied By) - Represents that a component provides or offers for consumption another component.
        - External Organization - Supplies > Application.
    - Reports to (Has Report) - Represents that a person or organization reports to or is accountable to another.
        - Person - Reports to > Person Organization Unit - Reports to > External Organization