## The Business Capabilities Domain
The Business Capabilities Domain describes the organization’s requirements for processing or functionality. 

- Capabilities are logical, describing what processing is required without specifying how it is realized.
- To understand how they are realized by people and technology business capabilities can be linked to components in the business processes and applications domains.
- To understand how capabilities underpin products and services, business capabilities are mapped to value streams.
## Business capability component
A Business capability component is a logical activity or group of activities performed by the organization.

- Unlike a business process, a business capability is defined by grouping activities that access or utilize a common resource (like customer information) rather than in response to a particular trigger or event.
- For most organizations, business capabilities can be thought of as the information processing requirement which may be fulfilled by a manual business process, an automated application, or both.
- Because of increasing automation the balance between the proportion of business capabilities implemented through manual rather than automated means will shift over time.

A business capability component is a logical activity or group of activities performed by the organization.

- Unlike a business process, a business capability is defined by grouping activities that access or utilize a common resource (like customer information) rather than in response to a particular trigger or event.
- For most organizations, business capabilities can be thought of as the information processing requirement which may be fulfilled by a manual business process, an automated application, or both.
- Because of increasing automation the balance between the proportion of business capabilities implemented through manual rather than automated means will shift over time.
## Value Stream
A value stream is the sequential orchestration or execution of activities and resources required to create one or more propositions.

- In effect, it is a high-level process which orchestrates lower-level processes as well as applications, integrations and technology services when expressed physically; it can also be expressed logically as the orchestration of the capabilities which those processes, applications etc. realize. In either case, it results in the delivery of a consumable product or service.
