# Disorder

It can be extremely difficult to identify when you're in a "disorder" situation. Here, it isn't clear which of the other four domains is dominant, and people generally rely on decision-making techniques that are known and comfortable. Your primary goal in this situation is to [gather more information](https://www.mindtools.com/abpk6sg/information-gathering), so that you can move into a known domain and then take the appropriate action.

### Example

José and his team recently rolled out an innovative new e-reader. However, it has developed an issue, and no one can agree on what's causing it. Dissatisfied customers are returning the product and the company's reputation has taken a hit. José is managing a number of issues. He has to help his team uncover the cause of the problem so it can be fixed, he's working with marketing to compensate customers, and he's answering questions from the media about the e-reader's issue.

He uses the Cynefin framework to gain a better understanding of the situation, and he categorizes it as "complicated," which means he needs to take a Sense – Analyze – Respond approach.

So, he brings in experts from research and development, IT and manufacturing to help him diagnose the problem. Working closely with his team, these experts list the quality concerns and then focus on each one individually to find the root cause of the problem.

After several days of analysis, everyone agrees that the problem is caused by dry solder joints. Working together, the consultants and José's team come up with a clear plan to address this and ensure that no more faulty e-readers are shipped.
