### 1. Probing 
- Open Ended questions that press for specific details that your prospect won't think to offer up on their own
	- How much is...
	- Can you please define...
	- What is the current...
### 2. Process
- Open ended questions that ask "How?" These focus on getting information on how your prospect does what they do.
	- How do you...
	- Can you walk me through...
	- What is your current process for...
### 3. Provoking
- Open ended questions that gently push prospect to consider their current state from a new perspective
	- Have you considered...
	- Have you thought about...
### 4. Validation
- Not open ended! This allows you to repeat information back to your prospect to make sure you've correctly understood everything they've told you
	- ...do I understand this correctly?
	- Is this correct
### 5. Acute listening and responsive questions 
- Essential to strong discovery questions
	- You mentioned...can you help me understand...
	- I understand you are focused on...but you also discussed...have you considered...
	- I've been doing some rough math here. It looks like you are X dollars off track today. Do I have this right?
### 6. Common discovery question mistakes
- Asking the customer to self diagnose - "What problems do you see with your current process?
- Starting with root cause diagnostics before the business problem - "Can you walk me through the process...
- Jumping to future state before understanding the current state - "Where would you like your revenue to be?"
- Telling assumptions vs asking for reality - "I know companies like yours are around 3-4 months to...)
### 7. Ask open ended question, refuse open ended answers!
- Probe for specifics
### 8. You should know before your customer and be able to defend it!