# Construction of Whole Cell Bacterial Biosensors as an Alternative Environmental Monitoring Technology to Detect Naphthenic Acids in Oil Sands Process-Affected Water

**Tyson Bookout, Steve Shideler, Evan Cooper, Kira Goff, John V. Headley, Lisa M. Gieg, and Shawn Lewenza***

**Cite This:** https://doi.org/10.1021/acssynbio.4c00260 **Read Online**

**ACCESS |** Metrics & More **|** Article Recommendations **|** Supporting Information

## ABSTRACT

After extraction of bitumen from oil sands deposits, the oil sand process-affected water (OSPW) is stored in tailings ponds. Naphthenic acids (NA) in tailings ponds have been identified as the primary contributor to toxicity to aquatic life. As an alternative to other analytical methods, here we identify bacterial genes induced after growth in naphthenic acids and use synthetic biology approaches to construct a panel of candidate biosensors for NA detection in water. The main promoters of interest were the atuAR promoters from a naphthenic acid degradation operon and upstream TetR regulator, the marR operon which includes a MarR regulator and downstream naphthenic acid resistance genes, and a hypothetical gene with a possible role in fatty acid biology. Promoters were printed and cloned as transcriptional lux reporter plasmids that were introduced into a tailings pond-derived _Pseudomonas_ species. All candidate biosensor strains were tested for transcriptional responses to naphthenic acid mixtures and individual compounds. The three priority promoters respond in a dose-dependent manner to simple, acyclic, and complex NA mixtures, and each promoter has unique NA specificities. The limits of NA detection from the various NA mixtures ranged between 1.5 and 15 mg/L. The atuA and marR promoters also detected NA in small volumes of OSPW samples and were induced by extracts of the panel of OSPW samples. While biosensors have been constructed for other hydrocarbons, here we describe a biosensor approach that could be employed in environmental monitoring of naphthenic acids in oil sands mining wastewater.

**KEYWORDS:** bacterial biosensor, gene expression, naphthenic acids, tailings pond, oil sands mining, environmental monitoring

## INTRODUCTION

The Athabasca oil sands in northern Alberta represent one of the world's largest sources of recoverable bitumen.¹ Bitumen is a heavily biodegraded crude oil recovered from surface mining the oil sands through the Clark process, or alkaline hot water extraction.²,³ After separation of the oil from the extraction water, the resulting oil sands process-affected water (OSPW) is deposited and stored in tailings ponds where solids can settle, and the water can be recycled for repeat extractions.¹ In addition to sand, silt, and clay, the OSPW contains many compounds such as dissolved ions, heavy metals, unrecovered oil, and numerous acid-extractable organic (AEO) compounds like naphthenic acids.¹⁻³

Naphthenic acids (NA) are naturally produced during the degradation of petroleum and are present in the oil sands ore used to produce bitumen. Naphthenic acid concentrations at the low end (5−30 mg/L) are in-line with concentrations observed in Athabasca wetlands,⁴ and midrange concentrations (50−120 mg/L) are in-line with OSPW and industrially affected experimental wetlands.³,²,⁵,⁶ They are classically defined by the formula CₙH₂ₙ₋ᵧO₂, where n is the number of carbons and Z indicates the number of hydrogens lost due to ring formation, and comprise a complex mixture of monocyclic, polycyclic, and acyclic alkyl-substituted carboxylic acids.² The naphthenic acid fraction compounds (NAFCs) extracted from OSPW have been characterized at the molecular level by Headley et al. and others according to distribution of classical NA based on carbon number; double bond equivalence and number of rings; along with heteroatomic (e,g S, N) content.⁷,⁴,⁶ NA have been identified as the main contributor to OSPW toxicity, and have demonstrated toxicity in microbes, plants, fish, amphibians, birds and mammals.³,⁵,⁸ Some naphthenic acid compounds are difficult for bacteria to degrade, particularly those high molecular weight compounds containing multiringed structures and branched carboxylic acids.³

Standard practice in the oil sands industry is to store OSPW in large tailings ponds. Despite OSPW recycling, this has resulted in the accumulation of over 1 billion m³ of OSPW.⁹ There are currently no established, cost-effective methods available to remediate the organic contaminants in the tailings ponds on the large scale required, prior to eventual discharge back to the natural environment. There are various analytical methods for monitoring and quantifying NA, including conventional screening techniques such as Gas Chromatography−Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS), Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), along with molecular level high resolution mass spectrometry employing for example Fourier transform Ion cyclotron resonance or Orbitrap analysis with Negative Ion Electrospray Ionization-Mass Spectrometry (ESI-MS), with or without online High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC).⁸,¹⁰ These approaches are semiquantitative with relatively low limits of detection, as low as 0.01 mg/L with ESI-MS.⁸ In general, the chemical analysis methods require multiple sample processing steps, including an organic solvent extraction of OSPW, which may bias the analysis, and can be time-consuming and costly.¹⁰ Hence, there is an opportunity for a rapid, cost-effective method for sensitive NA detection and quantification.

Whole cell biosensors are engineered bacterial strains capable of detecting and quantifying various compounds and analytes by producing a simple optical or electrochemical output proportional to the analyte of interest.¹¹ This proven technology utilizes the refined metabolite sensing mechanisms of bacterial cells for detecting and adjusting to changes in the surrounding environment, providing a particularly useful tool for environmental monitoring. This technology is specific and capable of detecting low levels of small molecules, including aromatic compounds, alkanes, alkenes, heavy metals, and antibiotics.¹¹⁻¹⁵ The sensitivity for biosensors are commonly in the parts per million range (mg/L), though there have been some reporting in the range of parts per billion (μg/L).¹¹,¹⁶

Bacterial biosensors are constructed by cloning a target analyte-induced promoter as a transcriptional fusion to a reporter gene (lacZ, gfp, luxCDABE), which allows for a simple, measurable output in response to exposure to the analyte in question. Using a _Pseudomonas_ species OST1909 derived from a tailings pond,¹⁷ we performed RNA-seq to identify bacterial genes that are induced in response to various mixtures of naphthenic acids. We then printed a large collection of promoters and constructed a panel of transcriptional luxCDABE (bioluminescence) reporters to identify promoters that uniquely respond to acyclic naphthenic acids, a simple naphthenic acids mix, and the complex mixture of naphthenic acids that are extracted from OSPW, and untreated OSPW directly. NA-inducible promoters were configured in various biosensor designs, which were tested for their sensitivity and specificity of NA detection.

## METHODS

### Library Construction, SOLiD Sequencing, and RNA-Seq Analysis

_Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909¹⁵ was grown to mid log phase (∼25 °C) in TB medium (BD Difco, 243820) with 2% DMSO and then exposed for 3 h to 150 mg/L acyclic naphthenic acids (Sigma-Aldrich 70340,¹⁵), or 150 mg/L of custom mix of 9X naphthenic acids (Table S1), or 150 mg/L of acid extracted organics; namely naphthenic acid fraction compounds (NAFC) extracted from oil sands process-affected water, which were prepared as previously described and provided by Environment and Climate Change Canada.¹⁹ TB is buffered media (∼pH 7) was used to prevent any pH change upon addition of NA. Total bacterial RNA was isolated from duplicate cultures normalized to OD₆₀₀ = 0.2 (2 × 10⁹ cells) using the Qiagen RNeasy kit and stored in Qiagen RNA Protect. All subsequent steps were performed by the Centre for Health Genomics and Informatics at the University of Calgary. Total RNA samples were treated with DNase (Ambion) and assessed on an Agilent 2200 TapeStation. Then ribosomal depletion (Ribo-Zero, Illumina) and subsequent cDNA synthesis and conversion into sequencing libraries (SOLiD Total RNA-Seq Kit, Life Technologies) was performed as per the kit protocols. The indexed libraries were then pooled and added to SOLiD sequencing beads using emulsion PCR (EZ Bead E80 kit, Life Technologies). The resulting beads were then applied to two lanes of a six lane SOLiD 5500xl DNA sequencer for 75 bp sequencing. Each lane yield approximately 135 million reads (270 M reads total). Transcriptome data has been assigned the GEO accession number GSE262045.

Reads from the RNA-Seq experiment were mapped to the _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 genome¹⁷ using SHRiMP v2.2.3 (http://compbio.cs.toronto.edu/shrimp/; -v 50% -h 50%).²⁰ Samtools was then used to convert the.sam output into fasta format (http://www.htslib.org/) for transcript analysis with Kallisto v0.46.1−0 (https://pachterlab.github.io/kallisto/about, downgraded to legacy version that outputs bootstraps required by Sleuth)²¹ and the sleuth package in R (https://pachterlab.github.io/sleuth/about).²² Kallisto quantified data by pseudo alignment, assigning reads to reference transcripts based on kmer counts (-k = 31 -b 100 -s 1). Transcript abundances and bootstraps were modeled in Sleuth and subjected to statistical analysis via Wald test, modeled to remove transcripts occurring at low abundances across all conditions. The Mann−Whitney U test was performed to measure significant gene induction of all genes in an operon of interest.

### Construction of First-, Second-, and Third-Generation Bioluminescent Biosensors

A large panel of 54 promoters was targeted for DNA synthesis, combined with automated Gibson assembly to clone as transcriptional luxCDABE reporters in the plasmid pMS402²³ (Table S4). The BioXP 3200 was used for synthesis of predicted bacterial promoters, each with a minimum length of 165 bp that previously determined as a functional length for thousands of synthetic promoters.²⁴ However, if no BPROM²⁵ predicted promoter was found within the first 165 bp upstream of the start codon, the sequence length was extended to include the BPROM predicted promoter. The synthesis was performed in a 96-well plate format which produced a recovery plate that contained 10 μL of transformation-ready ligated promoter lux constructs, in addition to 50 μL of each synthesized promoter sequence. The pMS402 reporter plasmid is first linearized by BamHI restriction digestion, and the promoter sequences are synthesized with an extra 30−40 bp on both 5′ and 3′ ends that are complementary to the sequences flanking the BamHI site. The linearized vector and synthesized promoter were mixed with the Gibson Assembly Cloning Kit (NEB, M5510A), which contains a 5′ exonuclease, DNA polymerase, and ligase enzymes. Except for linearizing the pMS402 vector, the cloning processes were conducted by CODEX DNA's BioXP 3200. For the first-generation of synthesis and cloning, we maintained the pMS402 vector ribosome binding site (RBS) within 20 bp of the luxC start codon. Therefore, these constructs contained the promoter and vector ribosome binding sites (RBS) upstream of the luxCDABE operon. To optimize promoter cloning, we removed the vector RBS during the Gibson assembly in the second-generation constructs. The additional RBS between the promoter insertion site and the lux operon was hypothesized to interfere with expression of the other promoters. All plasmids were introduced into _Pseudomonas_ OST1909 using electroporation.

A third-generation design was used in constructs with the atuAR and marR promoters, where we also included the corresponding regulator gene atuR or marR, respectively, upstream from the transcriptional reporter (Figure 1). The regulator gene was driven by a low strength (data not shown), constitutive OST1909 promoter upstream of a predicted BCCT family transporter (locus tag "IH404_RS26360"). To prevent gene expression read through, strong terminators²⁶ were added downstream or upstream of the two synthetic promoters (Figure 1, Table S4).

### Mini-Tn5-lux Mutagenesis of _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 and Screening for NA-Induced Transcriptional Fusions

As previously described,²⁷ random mini-Tn5-lx mutagenesis was performed by mating the transposon from an _E. coli_donor into OST1909, and selecting insertion mutants on LB + 50 μg/mL tetracycline. Colonies were then stamped onto LB agar with and without 100 mg/mL of the custom mix of 9X naphthenic acids, and were visualized using a chemiluminescence imaging system, to identify colonies that had increased luminescence in the presence of NA. The genome of one mutant of interest was sequenced using minION (Oxford Nanopore) in order to map the Tn insertion site to the hypothetical gene with locus tag IH404_RS03680 (hyp3680::lux).

### High-Throughput Gene Expression Screening of Biosensor Constructs for Specificity and Sensitivity to Naphthenic Acids

Candidate biosensors were initially grown in tubes at room temperature (∼25 °C) overnight in 3 mL LB media +50 μg/mL kanamycin, to maintain selective pressure on the promoter-lux plasmid and subcultured into M9 (BD Difco, 248510) or BM2 (0.5 mM Mg²⁺)²⁸ minimal, defined media with 20 mM succinate. The lux gene expression assays were conducted in black 96-well, clear bottom plates (Thermo Scientific). NA were diluted to their final concentrations in 99 μL growth media containing 2% DMSO to increase NA solubility, which was then inoculated with 1 μL of the overnight biosensor cultures. All NA individual compounds and other hydrocarbons were sourced by Sigma-Aldrich, except for CHCA which was from Alfa Aesar. NA stock solutions (and their abbreviations) were prepared as shown in Table S2. Other hydrocarbons were tested to ensure the biosensor specificity for NA and certain hydrophobic compounds such as alkanes and longer carbon chain carboxylic acids required the solvent of 45% ethanol and 55% polyethylene glycol 400 (PEGEt),²⁹ at a final concentration of 2%. A Breath-Easy (Sigma-Aldrich) membrane was used to prevent evaporation during a 15-h protocol in a PerkinElmer 1420 multilabel counter Victor.³ The plate reader protocol (2 s shake; gene expression in counts per second (CPS), growth (OD₆₀₀)) included 45 time points, taken every 20 min. The gene expression CPS value was typically normalized by dividing the CPS by the OD₆₀₀ for each read. To compare the bioluminescent response of the different biosensor strains to the various compounds tested, the Fold Gene Expression was also calculated by dividing the CPS/OD₆₀₀ values of the NA treated sample by those of the untreated sample. A fold change of 1 indicates no change, and a fold change of 2 indicates a doubling of lux expression in comparison to the untreated control.

### Oil Sands Process Water (OSPW) Sample Testing

Water samples from the tailings ponds in the mineable oil sands region, as well as naphthenic acid fraction components (NAFC) extracted from the OSPW, were provided by Environment and Climate Change Canada. Details are given elsewhere of the collection of OSPW; preparation of the NAFC extracts, and molecular level analysis of NAFC by negative-ion electrospray ionization high resolution Orbitrap mass spectrometry.⁴,¹⁹ The concentrations of NAFC in both the water samples and extracts were determined and recorded in Table S3. Depending on the reported concentrations, the NAFC extracts were diluted by a factor of 10 or 100 and tested at a final concentration between 20 and 60 mg/L. To monitor NA levels in the water samples with minimal treatment or dilution, 90 μL of each sample were added to each well of the assay plate. This was supplemented with 10 μL of 10× BM2 to allow for biosensor growth, inoculated with 1 μL biosensor culture, and measured as described above.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

### Transcriptome Analysis of Genes Induced during Growth in the Presence of Naphthenic Acids

In the presence of petroleum hydrocarbons, transcriptome studies revealed that bacterial genes required to transport, metabolize or defend against these environmental compounds are frequently induced.³⁰⁻³² To identify genes regulated by exposure to naphthenic acids, we performed RNA-seq experiments with _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909¹⁷ grown to mid log phase in growth medium containing naphthenic acids. To generate a diverse array of NA-induced genes, transcriptome experiments were performed after adding 150 mg/L of three distinct naphthenic acid mixtures: acyclic naphthenic acids¹⁵ (Sigma-Aldrich, 70340), a custom mix of 9 individual naphthenic acids (Table S1), or NAFC extracted from oil sands process-affected water.⁴,¹⁹

The upregulated genes included many genes annotated in metabolism, fatty acid degradation, nutrient transport in and out of the cell, and here we focused on upregulated metabolite sensing, transcriptional regulators¹² and their adjacent operons (Tables S4 and S5). RNA-seq showed significant upregulation of genes under experimental conditions: OSPW (p < 0.05 = 56; q < 0.05 = 0; n = 2), acyclic NA (p < 0.05 = 140; q < 0.05 = 18, n = 2), and 9xNA (p < 0.05 = 110; q < 0.05 = 14, n = 2). Among the significantly upregulated genes (q < 0.05), we identified genes uniquely induced by the custom 9xNA mix involved in fatty acid degradation (β-oxidation), including fadD1 (IH404_RS22010) and fadL (IH404_RS20310)³³ and genes uniquely induced by the acyclic NA mixture that encode another possible NA degradation operon in the IH404_RS15470-IH404_RS15515 cluster (Table S5). There were a few examples of genes upregulated in both the acyclic and custom 9xNA mixes (q < 0.05), including the fadAB fatty acid degradation genes (IH404_RS09140/5), two predicted hydrolases (IH404_RS21755, IH404_RS02665) and a TetR-type regulator (IH404_RS07575). There were no genes significantly upregulated by exposure to NAFCs (q < 0.05), but 56 genes upregulated with p < 0.05 (Table S5).

We prioritized 54 NA-induced promoters for construction as plasmid-based transcriptional fusions, as candidates for bacterial biosensors to be used to detect naphthenic acids (Table S4) based on their upregulation in the transcriptome, and a predicted role in naphthenic acid degradation, efflux, transport and small molecule sensing transcriptional repressors.

### Rapid Construction of Plasmid-Encoded Transcriptional Fusions of NA-Inducible Promoters Controlling the luxCDABE Transcriptional Reporter Genes

Among the 54 genes identified by RNA-seq, 26 genes were induced in response to a commercially available mixture of acyclic carboxylic acids (SIGNA), 14 genes were induced by the simple mixture of nine NA compounds (9xNA), 14 genes were induced by the naphthenic acids that were acid extracted from OSPW (ECNA) (Tables S4 and S5). For large scale printing of bacterial promoters, we used short upstream regions (165−350 bp) that contained predicted sigma-70 promoter sequences²⁵ to drive the luxCDABE reporter. The first-generation constructs included the ribosome binding site (RBS) within the promoter, in addition to a second RBS present in pMS402 upstream of the luxC start codon. In the second-generation constructs, we removed the vector-encoded RBS and included only the RBS present in the predicted promoter region from _Pseudomonas_ sp. 1909 (Figure 1).

### The atuA and atuR Promoters from the atu Operon Are Induced after Detection of Acyclic Naphthenic Acids

In the transcriptome experiments, we identified an operon that is induced by acyclic NA, which encodes homologues of the _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ acyclic terpene utilization operon (atu operon)³⁴⁻³⁶ (Figure 2, Table S5). While individual genes within the cluster were induced, we also confirmed induction of the whole atu operon by acyclic NA using the U test (p < 0.05, Table 1). In _P. aeruginosa_, terpenes and the carboxylic acids citronellate and geranylate are degraded by the atu genes, through β-oxidation and the leucine-isovalerate utilization (liu) pathways.³⁴⁻³⁶ Notably, the _P. aeruginosa_ atu operon is induced in the presence of citronellate and the acyclic monoterpenes citronellol and geraniol.³⁴⁻³⁶ The probable _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 NA biodegradation cluster atuA through atuF (IH404_RS19870-IH404_RS1990) is divergently expressed from the tetR-type transcription regulator AtuR (IH404_RS19865)³⁷ (Figure 2A). Divergent promoters were detected in this intergenic region (Figure 2C) and therefore both promoters were cloned as transcriptional lux reporters.

Based on the model of the _P. aeruginosa_ AtuR repressor,³⁷ a homologue of the TetR repressor, we predicted that the _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 AtuR homologue binds to and therefore senses acyclic naphthenic acid compounds, which relieves this repressor from its inverted repeat binding site, resulting in induction of the atuA-F cluster in the presence of naphthenic acids. In _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909, the atu cluster is induced by acyclic naphthenic acids, similar in structure to acyclic terpenes, which are likely degraded by these genes (Figure 2B).

While the initial RNA-seq experiments were performed in rich TB medium, we tested transcriptional lux fusions in various media and found higher fold changes in response to NA using a defined, minimal medium with succinate as a carbon source. As shown in Figure 3, both first- and second-generation patuA-based biosensors display a strong bioluminescent response to the acyclic NA mixture in defined M9 media. For this comparison experiment, we used relatively high naphthenic acid concentrations of 400 mg/L. In contrast to the complex NA mixtures extracted from OSPW, this commercially available naphthenic acid extract is from a poorly defined petroleum source, and mass spectrometry analyses of this sample demonstrated that most compounds are acyclic naphthenic acids and range in length from 5 to 20 carbons.³⁸,¹⁸ Expression of most biosensors was compared in BM2 and M9 (data not shown), both of which are similar defined growth media, and overall, the base level atu expression and the naphthenic acid induction responses were generally higher in M9. While the atuA-lux expression levels are generally lower in the first-generation biosensors, the peak fold gene expression in the first-generation patuA¹-lux biosensor is higher (∼8 fold) than that of the second-generation sensor (∼3.5 fold) (Figure 3A). In general, we interpret the biosensors with highest induction response (peak fold change) as the most sensitive strains in response to the analytes tested. The lower gene expression of the first-generation biosensor may be attributed to the extra 31 bp of DNA and the second RBS found within, which may interfere with the translation of the lux operon.

### The atuR Promoter Is Also Induced in Response to Acyclic Naphthenic Acids

The divergent atuA and atuR promoters are predicted to be regulated by AtuR, a transcriptional repressor from the TetR family of regulators³⁹,⁴⁰ (Figure 2). Binding to the inverted repeat operator by AtuR would repress both promoters, and both promoters are predicted to be induced by naphthenic acid binding to AtuR. The atuR promoter was also cloned as first- and second-generation biosensors. While the second-generation patuR²-lux had roughly a 10X fold higher levels of overall expression, there was very little difference in the maximum fold gene expression (4-fold) between the two biosensor designs, which might be due to the slower induction response of this promoter compared to patuA (Figure 3B). The patuR-based biosensor construct reaches a maximum fold induction after 15 h, compared to the maximum response time of around 5−7 h for the patuA-based construct (Figure 3). In conclusion, the atuA promoter responds faster and to higher fold changes to acyclic naphthenic acids, compared to the atuR promoter, and is therefore a better choice as for biosensors that detect acyclic naphthenic acids. It should be noted that gene expression responses to naphthenic acids begin within minutes, although the maximal responses are within hours, indicating a very fast sensing bacterial response (Figure 3).

### The atuA Promoter Responds Specifically to Acyclic Naphthenic Acids and Not to Related Hydrocarbons

To test the range of specificity, the third generation atuA-L biosensor construct (see Methods for details) was screened with decreasing concentrations of four different NA mixtures, as well as 28 different individual hydrocarbon compounds at a concentration of 50 mg/L. Figure 4 indicates the specificity of the atuA-L biosensor is primarily to acyclic naphthenic acids. When exposed to diverse NA mixtures, the atuA-L construct displays significant 2-fold lux expression patterns for both the commercially available acyclic NA mixtures¹⁸ (Sigma-Aldrich, Acros) at 50 mg/L (Figure 4A). The individual compounds inducing the highest lux response from atuA-L are the acyclic NA compounds with low and medium length carbon chains such as hexanoic acid (2-fold), citronellate (3-fold), pentadecanoic acid (2.5-fold), and stearic acid (∼2.8-fold) (Figure 4B). The atuA promoter does not respond to any other related compounds, including ringed naphthenic acids, alkanes or BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene). Although the atu operon is annotated in _P. aeruginosa_for the utilization of acyclic terpenes (citronellol) and citronellate,¹⁶ the atuA-L biosensor responds to citronellate but does not exhibit a bioluminescent response to terpenes like citronellol or geraniol (Figure 4B). This suggests that the oil sands bacterial isolate _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 uniquely induces the atu operon in response to acyclic naphthenic acids, rather than acyclic terpenes.

### The Promoter Regulating marR and Antimicrobial Resistance Genes Responds to Fusaric Acid, an Antibiotic with a Naphthenic Acid Structure

Among the genes identified from the transcriptome study, an operon containing a MarR family regulator⁴¹ and genes predicted to contribute to fusaric acid transport, efflux and resistance (Figure 5), was found to be upregulated in the transcriptome study by the acyclic NA mixture and the simple 9xNA mixture (p < 0.05; Tables 1 and S5). Fusaric acid is an antibiotic with a naphthenic acid structure that has an aromatic ring containing a nitrogen heteroatom and two hydrocarbon branches (Figure 5B).

The marR gene found in _Pseudomonas_ sp. OST1909 encodes a regulator protein that is part of a large and widely distributed family of multiple antibiotic resistance regulators (MarR).⁴¹ This family of transcription factors is conceptually similar to the TetR family, controlling many other cellular processes such as antibiotic resistance, stress response,⁴² virulence,⁴³ and degradation or export of harmful compounds.⁴⁴ Using the promoter region found upstream of the marR operon, first- and second-generation pmarR-lux biosensors were constructed and tested for their responses to multiple naphthenic acid mixtures. We demonstrated that both pmarR-based biosensor constructs were strongly induced by fusaric acid, an antimicrobial with an NA-like compound with a nitrogen-containing ring structure (Figure 5B). Similar to the patuA-based biosensors, the first-generation marR sensor has lower overall gene expression levels than the second-generation biosensor, but higher induction responses to fusaric acid (Figure 6). The first-generation marR biosensor has ∼20-fold gene induction to fusaric acid, compared to 10-fold induction for the second-generation sensor, and is therefore the most sensitive reporter (Figure 6).

### Specificity of Naphthenic Acid Detection by the marR Promoter

To identify the range of naphthenic acids compounds detected, the third-generation marR-L biosensor was screened with decreasing concentrations of four different NA mixtures, as well as 28 different individual compounds at a concentration of 50 mg/L. The marR promoter showed a modest induction response to high concentrations of the Sigma-Aldrich acyclic NA mixtures (Figure 6C), was induced in a dose-dependent manner to a custom mix of 9 individual NA compounds (50−200 mg/L), which was consistent with the RNA-seq data (p < 0.05, Table 1). However, the marR-lux reporter also responded in a dose-dependent manner to extracted NA from oil sands process-affected water (OSPW) (32−128 mg/L) (Figure 6C). As fusaric acid resistance genes are induced in the presence of fusaric acid,⁴⁵,⁴⁶ and in response to NAFC, this suggests the presence of antimicrobial NA compounds, or FA, within the complex NAFC mixture.

When tested for the detection of individual compounds, the marR promoter was specifically induced by a few acyclic NA structures, but mostly by complex and classic NA structures. The strongest inducing compound was fusaric acid (FA, 10-fold), followed by 5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-2-naphthoic acid (THNA, 3-fold), 3-phenylpropionic acid (PPA, 3-fold), cyclohexyl succinic acid (CHSA, 2.5-fold), and cyclohexane acetic acid (CHAA, 2.5-fold) (Figure 6D). The inducing acyclic NA included the branched compound citronellate, and longer chain compounds such as decanoic acid and pentadecanoic acid (Figure 6D). In summary, the marR-based biosensor detected diverse and complex NA mixtures and compounds and was the only sensor to strongly respond to naphthenic acids extracted from the OSPW from oil sands mining tailings ponds.

### A Hypothetical Gene Promoter for Detecting Simple Naphthenic Acids

The promoter for a hypothetical gene at the locus tag IH404_RS03680 (referred to subsequently as "3680"), was upregulated in the presence of the custom NA mixture from the RNA-seq analysis (Table S5). While there are few identifiable functional domains in the 3680 protein, it does have three n-myristoylation sites, indicating post-translational modification with the 14-carbon unsaturated fatty acid, myristic acid. Further evidence of a potential role in fatty acid biology is suggested by the adjacent TetR regulator, a homologue of _P. aeruginosa_ DesT that detects the ratios of unsaturated to saturated fatty acids and regulates the production of unsaturated fatty acids for membrane lipid synthesis.⁴⁷ We also identified a mini-Tn5-lux insertion mutant within this gene (hyp3680::lux), that also was strongly induced in the presence of the simple NA mixture (Figure 7A).

Based on the gene expression responses and a potential role in fatty acid biology, this promoter was prioritized for synthesis and construction as a plasmid based p3680-lux biosensor candidate. The chromosomal and plasmid-based p3680-based biosensors were all strongly induced during growth in the presence of 50 mg/L of the simple 9xNA mix (Figure 7A−C). The second-generation 3680 sensor exhibited almost 10-times the lux expression of all constructs (Figure 7B,C), consistent with the atuA, atuR and marR expression patterns (Figures 3 and 6). However, the first-generation p3680¹-lux sensor displayed the highest fold gene expression values (Figure 7B) and was therefore the most sensitive to NA detection.

### Specificity of Naphthenic Acid Detection by the Hypothetical 3680 Promoter

The p3680²-lux biosensor responded in a dose-dependent manner primarily to the custom mixture of 9xNA compounds, but not to OSPW extracts or acyclic NA (Figure 7D). After testing each separate compound from the 9xNA Mix, the p3680²-lux biosensor responded mainly to the "classic" NA, such as cyclopentane carboxylic acid (CPCA, 6-fold), cyclohexane carboxylic acid (CHCA, 3-fold), phenylpropionic acid (PPA, 3-fold) and cyclohexane hexanoic acid (CHAA, 2-fold). Additionally, a significant 3-fold lux response was seen with hexanoic acid (HA, 3-fold), a short acyclic NA that is also present in the custom mixture (Figure 7E). This sensor also responds weakly (∼2-fold) to other more complex NA compounds such as 4-dimethylphenylacetic acid (DMPAA) and two compounds absent from the mix, cyclohexane succinic acid (CHSA) and FA.

### Dose Response Assays and Limits of Detection of the atuA, atuR, marR, and 3680 Promoters

The third-generation biosensor constructs were used to determine the dose response curves of the atuA, atuR and marR promoters. These complete biosensor constructs consist of the NA-inducible promoter fused to the lux reporter, with the inclusion of the corresponding repressor protein, under control of a "Low" strength, constitutive promoter. The atuA-L construct exhibits a linear relationship between the fold expression change values ranging from 7.8−125 mg/L, while the atuR-L construct displays this linear range of NA response and detection between 62.5−500 mg/L. The atuR promoter responds more slowly, with lower fold changes and less sensitivity to acyclic NA mixtures (Figure 8A,B). The limit of sensitivity for these promoters was determined by the NA concentration that resulted in a ∼ 2-fold gene induction (biologically relevant) and where increasing the concentration also increased the gene expression. The limits of sensitivity were estimated to be 15 mg/L for the atuA promoter, and 125 mg/L for the atuR promoter, in response to acyclic NA.

The third-generation marR-L construct (pLow-MarR, pmarR²-lux) was screened against 12 concentrations of the OSPW mixture ranging from 0.5 to 512 mg/L and the resulting bioluminescence measurements are shown in Figure 8C. The marR promoter responded to NAFC at concentrations as low as 16 mg/L, then responded in a linear dose response as the concentration increased to 512 mg/L. The second-generation p3680²-lux biosensor construct was screened with 8 concentrations of the 9xNA mixture, ranging from 1.5−100 mg/L (Figure 8D). This promoter responds very rapidly to the custom NA mixture and exhibits a strong linear, dose-dependent bioluminescent response, where the limit of detection of this custom 9XNA mix was as low 1.5 mg/L (Figure 8D).

### Detection of Naphthenic Acids in OSPW Samples Using a Panel of Three NA-Inducible Promoters

In addition to demonstrating biosensor detection of individual NA compounds and concentrated mixtures, it is important to also determine the ability of these whole-cell biosensors to detect naphthenic acids in actual samples of oil sands process-affected water (OSPW). We tested the NA biosensors for their ability to detect naphthenic acids in a panel of 24 oil sands process-affected water samples, as well as NAFC that were extracted from each respective OSPW sample. Given the wide range of NAFC concentrations within the OSPW extracts (Table S3), we diluted these samples by a factor of 10 or 100 in order to test a final NA concentration between 20 and 60 mg/L. In Figure 9A, 11/24 NAFC extracts induced a significant biosensor response above background expression levels (>1-fold), from at least one of three whole cell biosensors. Each biosensor in this collection responds to specific NA compounds (Figures 4-8), which allows the estimation of abundant NA compounds present within these OSPW samples. For example, samples 1911, 1912, and 1916 resulted in a ∼ 2.5-fold lux response from marR-L, suggesting that more complex multiringed or phenolic compounds are abundant in these mixtures. The lux response of atuA-L to the samples 1910 (∼3.5-fold), 1917 (∼2-fold), and 1922 (∼2-fold), suggested that these samples have a significant proportion of acyclic NA compounds. NAFC extracted from OSPW are complex, and not surprisingly, samples 1906, 1915, 1918, and 1920 induced a bioluminescent response multiple sensors, indicating the presence complex and acyclic NA. The average 2 to 4-fold lux response of both atuA-L and marR-L to the NAFC extracts screened at ∼40 mg/L in Figure 9A is similar to what would be expected from the dose response curves (Figure 8). Extract samples 1910 and 1924 reduced expression of 2/3 biosensors but did not inhibit growth, which is possibly a case of transcriptional silencing of the marR and 3680 biosensors.

Due to the low NA concentrations reported for the water samples (Table S3), 90 μL of each water sample were added to each well of the assay plate, with the addition 10 μL of 10× BM2 growth media, to allow for minimal dilution of the OSPW sample. In Figure 9B, the biosensor panel performed much better, where 22/24 water samples induced a significant biosensor response, from at least two of three whole cell biosensors. The marR-L and atuA-L biosensors displayed a high fold expression response (between 4 and 12-fold) for all samples except two, while the promoter for 3680 did not respond to any water sample. There was an inhibitory effect on the p3680²-lux biosensor by OSPW sample 1928, which may be due to a modest growth inhibition. The chemistry of OSPW is complex and we are developing a process to extract the organic NA compounds, to provide a less complex sample to assay with these biosensors. In summary, these NA biosensors can provide a confident indication for the presence or absence of naphthenic acids. Future work will be performed to provide semiquantitative estimates of the NA concentration, which requires testing of multiple sample volumes and extrapolating from the dose response curves.

## CONCLUSIONS

Whole cell bacterial biosensors have been previously constructed that are specific to various hydrocarbons, including alkanes,⁴⁸,⁴⁹ benzene/BTEX⁵⁰,⁵¹ and naphthalene.⁵² One previous NA biosensor study screened an _E. coli_ library of 1820 transcriptional gfp reporters for the identification of genes induced by exposure to the commercial naphthenic acids mixture from Sigma-Aldrich,⁵³ which is composed mostly of acyclic NA compounds.³⁸,¹⁸ They identified NA-induced genes that are involved in general stress response pathways, the pentose phosphate pathway, and the _E. coli_ marR homologue, among others.⁵³ Here we used an environmentally relevant chassis organism by isolating a _Pseudomonas_species from tailings ponds, performed transcriptome experiments with diverse mixtures of NA, and used a synthetic biology approach to construct a large panel of candidate naphthenic acid biosensors. There were relatively few significantly induced genes when exposed to various NA mixtures (Table S5, q < 0.05), compared to other genomic studies,⁵⁴,⁵⁵ which may have been due to unique oil sands NAFC sample used here, or due to differences in the microbial strains tested in the various studies. It may also have been a limitation of using duplicates for our transcriptome studies, however, the use of transcriptional lux fusions validated many of the upregulated genes identified by RNA-seq.

After thorough testing and multiple rounds of biosensor design, we identified several strong inducible promoters capable of NA sensing, driving the expression of genes involved in degradation or protection from NA. Many fatty acid degradation genes that likely contribute to β-oxidation of naphthenic acids were identified, which is consistent with the results of previous transcriptome and proteome studies with other _Pseudomonas_ species.⁵⁴,⁵⁵ This study identified transcriptional repressors that may act as naphthenic acid sensing proteins. The TetR and MarR family of transcription factors are well characterized to sense and respond to small molecules, and in turn regulating a wide variety of cellular processes including multidrug efflux pumps and carbon utilization. For these reasons, small molecule sensing repressor proteins are commonly used in the construction of bacterial biosensors.¹¹,¹²,⁴⁸

The NA biosensors in this study can sense and respond to different NA mixtures with good sensitivity, and each promoter demonstrates a unique naphthenic acid specificity profile. The NA-induced promoters are strongly induced in a concentration-dependent manner, which may allow for estimation of NA concentrations in OSPW by extrapolation from the dose response curves of gene expression responses (Figure 8). When used to detect NA in small volume samples of water taken from tailings ponds, there was NA detection by 2/3 biosensors in almost all water samples. When testing NAFC extracts of those corresponding water samples were tested at ∼40 mg/L, fewer samples were detected, which may be due to a change in NA composition after organic extraction. The ability to test small volumes of raw water samples provides another advantage of minimal sample preparation. Naphthenic acid biosensors show great potential for a rapid, reliable, cost-effective, and semiquantitative method for detection of environmental pollutants.

## ASSOCIATED CONTENT

**Supporting Information**

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acssynbio.4c00260.

Supplementary Tables 1−4: information about the stock concentrations of NA compounds and mixtures, the concentrations of NA in water and extracts, and the DNA sequences of synthetic promoters for biosensor construction (XLSX)

Supplementary Table 5: differential gene expression analysis for the transcriptome RNA-seq experiments (XLSX)

