Schedule "A" SHARE CAPITAL The Corporation is authorized to issue shares
without nominal or par value divided as follows: (a)

an unlimited number of Class "A" Common Voting Shares;

(b) 

an unlimited number of Class "B" Common Voting Shares;

(c) 

an unlimited number of Class "C" Common Non-Voting Shares;

(d) 

an unlimited number of Class "D" Preferred Voting Shares;

(e) 

an unlimited number of Class "E" Preferred Non-Voting Shares;

(f) 

an unlimited number of Class "F" Preferred Non-Voting Shares. RIGHTS AND
RESTRICTIONS ON CLASSES OF SHARES

The Class "A" Common Shares, Class "B" Common Shares and Class "C"
Common Shares shall carry and be subject to the following rights,
restrictions, conditions and limitations: 1.

Voting:

(a) The holders of Class "A" Common Shares and Class "B" Common Shares
    in the Corporation are entitled to notice of and attend at meetings
    of the Shareholders of the Corporation, and shall be entitled to
    one (1) vote in respect of each such share so held and the holder
    shall also be entitled to consent to and sign a resolution in
    writing to be signed by the Shareholders of the Corporation.
(b) Except as provided in the Business Corporations Act, as amended from
    time to time, the holders of the Class "C" Common Shares shall not,
    as such, be entitled to vote at, nor to receive notice of or attend
    shareholders meetings nor shall the holders be entitled to consent
    to or sign a resolution in writing to be signed by the Shareholders
    of the Corporation.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
2.  Dividends:

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
(a) The holders of the Class "A" Common Shares or Class "B" Common
    Shares or Class "C" Common Shares shall be entitled to receive a
    dividend when, as, and if declared by the Directors of the
    Corporation on the Class "A" Common Shares or Class "B" Common
    Shares or Class "C" Common Shares, as the case may be.

Dividends may be declared and paid on the Class "A" Common Shares or the
Class "B" Common Shares or the Class "C" Common Shares to the complete
exclusion of dividends being declared and paid on any other class or
classes of shares of the Corporation. Provided however, no dividends
shall be declared on such shares if to do so would impair the ability of
the Corporation to redeem the then outstanding Preferred Shares in the
capital stock of the Corporation. 3.

Return of Capital:

(a) In the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
    Corporation or other distribution of the assets of the Corporation
    among shareholders for the purpose of winding up its affairs, the
    holders of the Class "A" Common Shares and Class "B" Common Shares
    and Class "C" Common Shares shall rank pari passu with one another
    to receive any remaining balance of the assets and properties of the
    Corporation after payment of return of capital and any declared but
    unpaid dividends to the holders of the Preferred shares herein
    referred to. The Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred
    Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares shall carry and be subject to
    the following rights, restrictions, conditions and limitations:

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
1.  

Voting:

(a) The holders of the Class "D" Preferred Shares in the Corporation
    shall be entitled to notice of and to attend at meetings of the
    Shareholders of the Corporation, and shall be entitled to one (1)
    vote in respect of each such share so held and the holder shall also
    be entitled to consent to and sign a resolution in writing to be
    signed by the Shareholders of the Corporation.
(b) Except as provided in the Business Corporations Act, as amended from
    time to time, the holders of the Class "E" Preferred Shares and
    Class "F" Preferred Shares shall not, as such, be entitled to vote
    at, nor to receive notice of or attend shareholders meetings nor
    shall the holders be entitled to consent to or sign a resolution in
    writing to be signed by the Shareholders of the Corporation.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
2.  

Dividends:

(a) The holders of the Class "D" Preferred Shares or Class "E" Preferred
    Shares or Class "F" Preferred Shares shall be entitled to receive,
    when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the
    Corporation, out of the net profits and surplus of the Corporation
    properly applicable to the payment of dividends, a dividend at the
    rate or rates as the Directors of the Corporation may from time to
    time determine on the redemption price thereof (as hereinafter
    provided); the Directors of the Corporation shall further determine
    the amount

or method or methods of calculation of dividends on the Class "D"
Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred
Shares, the time and place of payment of dividends, whether cumulative
or non-cumulative or partially cumulative and whether such rate, amount
or method of calculation shall be subject to change or adjustment in the
future. For greater certainty, the holders of the Class "D" Preferred
Shares and Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares
shall have no preference or priority as to the declaration of dividends,
and dividends may be declared and paid on any other class of shares of
the Corporation to the exclusion of a dividend being declared and paid
on the Class "D" Preferred Shares or Class "E" Preferred Shares or Class
"F" Preferred Shares. Dividends may be declared and paid on the other of
them. Provided, however, no dividends shall be declared on such other
shares if to do so would impair the ability of the Corporation to redeem
the then outstanding Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred
Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares in the capital stock of the
Corporation. 3.

Return of Capital:

(a) In the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the
    Corporation, the holders of the Class "D" Preferred Shares and Class
    "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares shall rank pari
    passu with one another and shall have priority as to payment of the
    redemption price, as hereinafter provided, and priority for all
    declared and unpaid dividends up to the commencement of the
    winding-up, over all other shares in the capital for the time being
    of the Corporation; but shall not have any right to participate in
    the assets of the Corporation beyond the redemption price, as
    hereinafter provided, and all declared and unpaid dividends whether
    in a winding-up or on the reduction, redemption or purchase by the
    Corporation of the capital stock.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
4.  

Redemption at Corporation's Option:

(a) The Corporation may by resolution of the Directors, and upon giving
    notice as hereinafter provided, from time to time redeem or purchase
    the whole or any part of the Class "D" Preferred Shares or Class "E"
    Preferred Shares or Class "F" Preferred Shares on payment for each
    share to be redeemed or purchased of the redemption price as
    hereinafter provided thereof together with all declared and unpaid
    dividends. In case a part only of the then outstanding Class "D"
    Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred
    Shares is at any time to be redeemed or purchased the redemption or
    purchase shall be pro rata disregarding fractions amongst all the
    holders of the then outstanding Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class
    "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares, unless the
    Corporation and all of the holders of the then outstanding Class "D"
    Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred
    Shares otherwise agree in writing. Unless the holders of the Class
    "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F"
    Preferred Shares otherwise agree in writing, not less than ten days'
    notice in writing of such

redemption or purchase shall be given by mailing to the registered
holder of the shares to be redeemed or purchased a notice specifying the
date and place of redemption or purchase, which may be a chartered bank.
(b) If notice of any such redemption or purchase be given by the
Corporation in the manner aforesaid and an amount sufficient to redeem
or purchase the shares to be redeemed or purchased be deposited with the
chartered bank specified in the notice on or before the date fixed for
redemption or purchase, dividends on the Class "D" Preferred Shares,
Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares to be redeemed
or purchased shall cease to accrue after the date so fixed for
redemption or purchase and the holders thereof shall thereafter have no
rights against the Corporation in respect thereof except upon surrender
of certificates for such shares to receive payment thereof of the
redemption price. 5.

Retraction at Shareholder's Option:

(a) Every holder of record of Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E"
    Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares shall, subject as
    hereinafter provided, be entitled to require the Corporation to
    redeem or to purchase all or any part of the Class "D" Preferred
    Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares
    held by such holder by surrendering on a business day the
    certificate or certificates representing such Class "D" Preferred
    Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares,
    properly endorsed in blank for transfer or accompanied by an
    appropriate form of transfer properly executed in blank, at the
    registered office of the Corporation or at the office of any
    transfer agent of the Corporation or at such other place or places
    as the Directors of the Corporation may from time to time designate,
    such certificate or certificates so surrendered to be accompanied by
    a notice in writing (hereinafter called a "redemption notice")
    signed by such holder or by his duly authorized attorney requiring
    the Corporation to redeem or purchase all or a specified number of
    the Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class
    "F" Preferred Shares represented thereby. If the redemption notice
    is signed by an attorney, it shall be accompanied by evidence of the
    authority of such attorney satisfactory to the Corporation or a
    transfer agent of the Corporation.
(b) A redemption notice shall be deemed to have been given when actually
    received at the registered office of the Corporation or at the
    office of any transfer agent of the Corporation or at such other
    place or places as the Directors of the Corporation may from time to
    time designate and when so given shall, subject as hereinafter
    provided in 5(e), be irrevocable.
(c) Payment of the redemption price for the Class "D" Preferred Shares,
    Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares
    surrendered for redemption or for sale shall be made by or on behalf
    of the Corporation to the holders of

record thereof not later than the seventh day following the date upon
which the redemption notice is given as aforesaid. (d) Payment for Class
"D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred
Shares surrendered for redemption or for sale shall be made in such
manner as may be agreed between the Corporation and the holder(s)
thereof or by cheque payable at par in Canadian funds at any branch of
the Corporation's bankers and delivered to the holders of record of
Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F"
Preferred Shares so surrendered or at the option of the Corporation such
cheque shall be forwarded by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the
holders of record of the Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred
Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares so surrendered at their addresses
as the same appear in the records of the Corporation. In the case of
each cheque so mailed, delivery thereof shall be deemed to have been
made to the registered holder concerned as soon as the letter containing
the same has been mailed. (e) In the event that the redemption or
purchase of all those outstanding Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E"
Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares in respect of which the
Corporation has received redemption notices at any given time would
cause the Corporation to be in contravention of the provisions of the
Business Corporations Act (Alberta), the Corporation shall at that time
redeem or purchase, on a pro rata basis, disregarding fractions, only
such number of Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares
and Class "F" Preferred shares as can be redeemed or purchased without
causing such contravention and the Corporation shall redeem or purchase
the balance of the outstanding Class "D" Preferred shares, Class "E"
Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares in respect of which the
Corporation has received redemption notices on a pro rata basis,
disregarding fractions, at such time or times as such redemption or
purchase can be made without causing the Corporation to be in
contravention of the provisions of the Business Corporations Act
(Alberta). 6.

Redemption or Purchase Price: Class "D" Preferred Shares

(a) The redemption price or the purchase price for the Class "D"
    Preferred Share surrendered for redemption or for sale shall be such
    amount as may be determined by the Directors of the Corporation at
    the time such Class "D" Preferred Share is issued together with any
    declared and unpaid dividends thereon. Class "E" Preferred Shares
(b) The redemption price or the purchase price of the Class "E"
    Preferred Share surrendered for redemption or for sale shall be such
    amount as may be

determined by the Directors of the Corporation at the time such Class
"E" Preferred Share is issued together with any declared and unpaid
dividends thereon. Class "F" Preferred Shares (c) The price or
consideration payable entirely in lawful money of Canada at which the
Class "F" Preferred Shares shall be redeemed (the "Class "F" Redemption
Amount") shall be the amount of consideration received therefor as
determined by the Directors of the Corporation and adjusted by the
Directors at any time or times so as to ensure that the Class "F"
Redemption Amount of such Class "F" Preferred Shares issued as partial
or total consideration for the purchase by the Corporation of any assets
or the conversion or exchange of any shares (the "Class "F" Purchased
Assets") shall equal the difference between the fair market value of the
Class "F" Purchased Assets as at the date of purchase conversion or
exchange by the Corporation and the aggregate value of non-share
consideration, if any, issued by the Corporation as partial or total
consideration for the Class "F" Purchased Assets. For greater certainty,
such fair market value shall be determined by the Directors of the
Corporation upon such expert advice as they deem necessary. Should,
however, any competent taxing authority at any time issue or propose to
issue any assessment or assessments that impose or would impose any
liability for tax on the basis that the fair market value of the Class
"F" Purchased Assets is other than the amount approved by the Directors
and if the Directors or a competent Court or tribunal agree with such
revaluation and all appeal rights have been exhausted or all times for
appeal have expired without appeals having been taken or should the
Directors of the Corporation otherwise determine that the fair market
value of the Class "F" Purchased Assets is other than the amount
previously approved by the Directors, then the Class "F" Redemption
Amount of the Class "F" Preferred Shares shall be adjusted nunc pro tunc
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph to reflect the agreed upon
fair market value and all necessary adjustments, payments and repayments
as may be required shall forthwith be made between the proper parties.
7.

Liquidity:

(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, no
    dividends or other payment or distribution shall be made to the
    holders, as such, of shares in the capital stock of the Corporation
    other than Class "D" Preferred Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares
    and Class "F" Preferred Shares if the payment thereof would result
    in the fair market value of the Corporation's assets, net of
    liabilities owed by the Corporation, being less than the aggregate
    of the redemption or purchase price of all Class "D" Preferred
    Shares, Class "E" Preferred Shares and Class "F" Preferred Shares
    then outstanding.

Schedule "B" 1. The Corporation has a lien on a share registered in the
name of a shareholder or his legal representative for a debt of that
shareholder to the Corporation. 2. The Corporation may sell, in the
manner hereinafter provided for the sale or disposition of shares by a
shareholder, mutatis mutandis, any shares on which the Corporation has a
lien, but no sale shall be made unless some sum in respect of which the
lien exists is presently payable, nor until the expiration of fourteen
(14) days after a notice in writing stating and demanding payment of
such part of the amount in respect of which the lien exists as is
presently payable, has been given to the registered holder for the time
being of the share, or the person entitled by reason of his death or
bankruptcy to the share. 3. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied in
payment of such part of the amount in respect of which the lien exists
as is presently payable, and the residue shall, subject to like lien for
sums not presently payable as existed upon the shares prior to the sale,
be paid to the person entitled to the share at the date of the sale. The
purchaser shall be registered as the holder of the shares, and he shall
not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money, nor shall
his title to the shares be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in
the proceedings in reference to the sale. 4. The directors may decline
to register a transfer of shares on which the Corporation has a lien for
money unpaid by the shareholder to the Corporation. 5. In addition to
the power of Directors to make, amend or repeal by-laws, shareholders,
by special resolution, may make, amend or repeal by-laws. Any by-laws
passed by resolution of the shareholders may be varied, amended or
repealed only by a special resolution (as defined by The Act) of the
shareholders. This does not apply to the by-laws passed by directors and
confirmed only by shareholders, pursuant to Section 98(3) of The Act. 6.
The directors may between annual general meetings appoint additional
directors subject to Section 101(4) of The Act. 7.

A retiring director is eligible for re-election.

8.  

The directors may, without authorization of the shareholders: (i)

borrow money on the credit of the Corporation;

(ii) 

issue, reissue, sell or pledge debt obligations of the Corporation;

(iii) subject to Section 42 of The Act execute a guarantee on behalf of
the Corporation to secure performance of an obligation of any person;
and (iv) mortgage, hypothecate, pledge or otherwise create a security
interest in all or any property of the Corporation, owned or
subsequently acquired, to secure any obligation of the Corporation. 9.
The directors may execute in the name of and on behalf of the
Corporation in favour of any director or other persons who may incur or
be about to incur any personal liability for the benefit of the
Corporation, a mortgage or mortgages of the Corporation's present and
future property, including any uncalled shares as they may think fit,
and such mortgage or mortgages may contain a power of sale and such
other powers, covenants and provisions as may be agreed upon. 10.

The number of shareholders of the Corporation exclusive of: (i) persons
who are employed by it or an affiliate and are shareholders of the
Corporation, and (ii) persons who, having been formerly employed by the
Corporation, were shareholders of the Corporation while so employed and
have continued to be shareholders of the Corporation after termination
of that employment, is limited to not more than fifty (50) persons, two
(2) or more persons who are the joint registered owners of one or more
shares being counted as one shareholder.

11. Any invitation by the Corporation to the public to subscribe for its
    securities is prohibited.
12. No share of the Corporation shall be transferred without the
    approval of the Board of Directors, evidenced by a Directors'
    Resolution.


