There will always be a constraint in every system, otherwise it's performance would be unlimited! The world has never seen a company with infinite sales, for example. 
  
The question, therefore, is which constraint do you prefer to maintain? Allowing constraints to shift continuously is difficult to manage and leads to a situation of chaos. 
  
Why not choose the constraint we wish to have and find ways keep it there? We can usually cause any specific resource, or market demand, to become the constraint by simply elevating the current constraint until it becomes so. This is the meaning of a "Strategic Constraint."  
  
One common argument for keeping the constraint internal is that "we can manage it better." But can you _really_ manage it better given the fluctuations in market demand? The problem with this approach is the how customers may respond. In today's competitive world, will your largest customer really tolerate being put "on hold?" How will this affect long term relationships and your perception in the market? In B2C will consumers still choose to return to your brand, after having been forced to trial the competition? In certain specific environments, customers may be forgiving and such concerns might not be an issue. But for most companies, having an internal constraint for any significant period can become extremely problematic.  
  
Therefore **customer demand** is a good choice as the strategic constraint for most companies. Elevating the internal resources enough to make customer demand the constraint is worthwhile because it allows faster response to the market – which often leads to a decisive competitive edge. The only time when it is **NOT worthwhile** to elevate a constraint is when this would requires more investment of time, energy or capital than the extra Throughput is likely to justify​.

## What is a Capacity Constrained Resource (CCR)?

A Capacity-Constraint-Resource (CCR) limits the total Throughput generated by the organization. CCRs may not be active all the times, but they have potential to become active at any time. For example, an injection moulding factory with multiple machines and many different finished products might have only one mould of a given type. Most of the time, this mould does not limit the capacity of the factory, but if they receive several large orders for that specific type of product at the same time, it creates a constraint.  
  
Many times, organizations have a seasonal CCR leading up to major cycles such as the Christmas shopping season in the United States, Diwali Holidays in India, Chinese New Year, etc. It is useful to identify CCR(s) in advance so that proper planning and order promise date quotation can be done.   
  
Most resources should not be permitted to become CCRs because their value is so low compared to other resources. Ideally, CCRs should be resources that are very expensive or difficult to elevate. Often expanding the CCR would involve high Capital Investment and/or Operating Expense, for example a paper making machine or steel furnace. Other times the CCR might be a scarce skill such as an SAP ABAP programmer or aluminum welder. Still other times the CCR might have very long process time within the overall cycle time, such as with a heat treatment oven. The location/sequence of the constraint within the routing sequence can make some difference – but this is not usually the most important issue. In certain environments, a particular type of skill might be very hard to find and replace, such as a doctor, chartered accountant, aluminum welder, or high-end engineering resource. Other operations can be very difficult to control, such as automotive painting booths. ​But eventually, the choice of CCRs usually boils down to the first characteristic: the cost and difficulty of elevation.