to actually start water treatment and it's not a bad way to roll. That's one thing that you do. We have this way to monitor in a rapid way.

So we do a whole bunch of monitoring and then we tie it in with the Squarehead Foundry data platform, bringing all this other data because this is going to help you to actually have better informed decisions.

I also think it also sort of plays towards even the bioaugmentation as our phase two, which is another thing I want you kind of thinking a little bit about, Sean, because I don't think we should necessarily, I think we should still have that as a goal for something to try.

But, you know, the third thing is Max and Sean, I sent you and Greg Max's document that he put together, which is looking at how the oil sands operators in their financial statements recognize their asset retirement obligation.

And it's pretty darn interesting as to how he positions it. How he positions it is there's a lot of conservatism. There's a lot of unknowns in how they recognize their asset retirement obligation.

And the higher confidence that they get with how they would remediate these assets or these, the toxins and stuff like that, they could actually change how they're recognizing the asset retirement obligation and their financial statements.

And this is like millions of dollars, even from a fairly conservative perspective. So I'd like you both, this is his version one. So he's put a whole bunch of qualifiers on it.

He still needs to share this with his prof, see if this is how they're doing. And as we start to read through this, we're going, okay, this is another really important way to position what we do and how, why ask why now?

You got to start monitoring. You got to start to gather this data. You got to get as better informed decisions. So we're Steve Lout's going, you know, if you can make us operationally more efficient, that's great.

That's one quiver that we can go at. But then we can also go, and oh, by the way, your, your financial statements have this ARO in it. And it's a pretty big number.

Like CNRL has 1.9 billion and I bet you that's fucking low. So they probably even know that's a bigger number, but their, their discounted rate is kind of high. So, you know, what Max's document will do is it'll walk you through multiple ways that this can be reflected in the, the financial statements.

So, you know, as, as stalled as I feel in some ways, I think we're still building a really compelling story as to why somebody should consider us.

And the way that I'm looking at it is I'm going, okay, you know, the sooner you can actually start to address this problem, you don't have to produce another barrel of oil.

And it makes you financial statements look better for the tunes of lots of money, right? So, and this in the same way gives us the ability to charge more for our service, right?

So there's, there's a higher value that we're delivering here, right? So it's not like what's your cost per test, or that seems really expensive. If we can actually position in a way where operational efficiency, we're going to impact you in a positive way this way, but in your financial statements and how you've actually got it recognized in your financial statements.

This is where the freaking gold is. And that might accelerate them wanting to actually start something or engage us or see us as the players that they want to work with. So, does that make sense?

Yeah, it does. And you're always refining the story and you're building, like I look at the website and it's, it was actually looked pretty good from my phone. And I don't know what date you updated it, but like some of this information gets updated in the website, probably the website could use that even a newer update where you're always.

A hundred percent. Yeah, I haven't touched the switch in a long time. You've made all kinds of pitches and all of these other angles you, you probably are including in. We already had the story just gets better and better. We have to go and let people hear it.

And so for CNRL who said they're interested in the talk, they're the first people that need to sit in front of this presentation. Right. And then.

And then. To get them moving along, thinking about how they can use it. So where are we on that planning stage with them?

Because we've had a few emails since that in-person meeting, but nothing. This is the week where we kick it all off. December is always the sleepy month. Nobody does anything. Nobody replies.

So we're going to do the big push. I got to talk to Dave. Dave has access to that one guy, Terrence. Well, he's got a buddy who's a senior VP there.

He sits across the office from him. So I'm going to reach out to Dave here this week. And I actually owed him stuff last week, or before the Christmas break, but I didn't get to him.

So I got to get on that right now. That's the one thing. Jocelyn, she was trying to do some stuff in regards to getting in front of Suncor. But this is a complex conversation to have.

And I think this is where it's a bit troublesome for me. Because I'm like, how do you dumb it down, but still have the same level of impact in the story?

Right? So if somebody's looking at it purely from a monitoring perspective, but they don't really understand it, like I encourage you guys, read that fucking document Max made.

Because I think it's going to give you some interesting insights. And when we're talking to somebody in regards to how this is impacting their financial statements, to the tune of bigger numbers, that's going to have a lot more effect than the greenwashing aspect of, you know, like it's an environmental play.

We're going to help you monitor your NAs and break it down. No, like we've got to make it a big business problem. Operationally, how are things going? Well, these are the things we can do. And, you know, it's good that I reverse engineered the Curl Wetland Project and said, you know, we kind of saved you $250,000.

But, you know, I'm looking at that as a baseline. That's a baseline, just a simple assumption on how you guys have been doing this from an old school perspective.

But if you would do it in the way that we would probably recommend and the impact that we could have with the biosensor, as well as the platform, it's probably an order of magnitude better from an operational efficiency perspective.

Right. So, you know, that exercise you did where you analyze the Curl Wetland and you just referred to saving them money. I don't remember what you did.

It would be nice to hear the rationale for, you know, if you had applied the biosensor to this problem, this is how. I wouldn't mind hearing that from one point.

I don't know if Greg has heard it either, but maybe not now, but I wouldn't mind being refreshed as to what that. So, interestingly enough, there's a couple of things that were sort of noted.

A, because when you're in an engineered environment like this, engineers, if they don't actually know, they'll go to the conservative side of things. So, if you don't know, over-engineer or always go to the safety side of things.

So, they shut down the Curl Wetland project at one particular date. I think it was like end of September or end of mid, might have been end of August, right?

But some data that came out of it realized that we can probably, they could have run it for another three to four weeks. But they just shut it down because they thought the temperatures and the sun was not breaking down.

But it proved that the NAs were still continuing to be degraded. So, you could run a longer season, which is, you know, accelerating things. Another thing was dewatering or rewatering.

Like where the water actually evaporated to a certain point. When they want to rewater it, they paused something because they didn't know how that was going to impact.

But if we were testing on a frequent basis, we would have been able to give them a bunch of different insights. So, they lost a bunch of time there. And then they were doing some chemical dosing of the water for toxicity. And there was stuff that they didn't necessarily do.

But they were doing it just based on assumption. I was like 12 grand worth of dosing or something to that effect. So, there was a bunch of different things. Well, at some point in time that they added some shit into the water.

At the wetland? Yes. Oh. That was in the Curl Wetland Report. Bioassay. I know they added more water.

Well, there was water, but there was a bioassay. What is that shit called? Um... I'll pull it up for you. Anyways, I've got the different things and that's how we broke it down as to what it did. What it proved is they're making decisions based on assumptions, based on conservatism and safety and not data driven decisions. Yeah. And that's really kind of what the point is we're trying to make here is you need better insights.

And with the biosensor and the platform in combination and bringing in all these other data points, you're going to be able to interrogate the data better and it's going to get smarter and smarter and smarter.

And because you can use it with natural language, you can actually interrogate it at the speed of thought because you've got all this data in this data platform and you have a way where you can actually, you know, say, hey, we're thinking on doing this.

What do you think of that? And you get an answer back in like a fraction of a second as opposed to two to three weeks of compiling the data and trying to find and put it all together. Right.

So. I have two things I wanted to mention. Greg, did you ever sit with any of those images or have any time to look at the image analysis problem there?

No, not before the holidays. I've got time now, obviously. I might have to. It would probably be best if we sat down and did it together.

Or like you were working on it and I was on the call and we were just talking about it just to make it easier. Yeah, so... Um... When did you send that?

I don't know, sometime. Oh, here we go. A month ago. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Let me, um... I'll take a look at it just to refresh my memory. And then, um...

Yeah, we could sit down. The whole point there is, if we can avoid having to concentrate the things with the columns and do the quantitative liquid experiments, like where it takes a few more days, this is a 24-hour result where you're not treating the water other than concentrating it.

And if we can train a system to recognize the image on the plate, because there's only so many responses that range from no response to high NAs, there's only four or five types of images, we could get accrued any estimate of value, which is what they want, in 24 hours just from image analysis.

And it might be accurate enough, is what I'm hoping. Okay, so I have a PowerPoint, which is fine. Do you also have the original images you can send me? Um, I always, yeah, but you can click on them and save them as a picture and, um, it's even a save.

Oh, sorry. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So no, I see that the images are actually embedded in the doc. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, you can use them there. And because I don't think you need like high res images. No, either.

No, that's fine. Yeah. Hey, yeah. Are you going to do that now or? Go ahead. The other thing is, I was reminded about these little small internal grants from AU.

I'm actually back on the panel. So AU faculty can apply for these $8,000 grants for one year. So it's a very small amount of money, but it's an easy pool to get.

There's a deadline in February 1. It's three times a year, so they're quite frequent. But I thought about applying for one to build, consider building on imaging, either a handheld device or something in the lab where you can get really good images.

I probably will do it if I put together a reasonable, if I can assess the equipment and determine that it's out there and it fits within the $8,000 budget.

The hard part is fitting in someone like that guy that you met, Jeff, to assemble it, who's a hardware person. But I'm thinking of doing that to move that forward.

So I'm gonna just share my screen here for a second here. This is another thing that we did, Don. Is we're starting to map out what the actual operational model would look like.

So if CNRL came to us and said, hey, if we went with a pilot with you guys, how does that look, right?

And if we didn't actually have a way to explain to them that we've thought this through, we'd kind of be fucking dead in the water, right? So this is just business process mapping. All it is, is we've got these different swim lanes, right?

You've got the customer site. You know, that's what the customer does. We've got luminous operations. We've got the lab operations. We've got the platform. Then we have the customer. So this is fairly high level, right?

So we go, oh yeah, well, we ship you a kit, right? So this has got to be validated through you, Sean. And it's obviously going to be validated through Greg. And what's going to be logical is going to be validated through the customer, right?

Where you guys, you sort of sample somehow, right? And if you actually look down here, we actually have some documentation that sort of, we can walk them through, right? The customer collects the water samples, receives a kit, different thing like that, right?

The next thing is you go through, you know, you've got to package it up for shipment. You know, what does that involve? Do you actually make sure, do we have to make sure that it's refrigerated? I don't know. These are things that you're going to have to talk to us about, right?

Hand it off to a courier, you know, provide contextual data, right? And then, you know, on site, they can review the dashboard. You know, for us, from an operations perspective, there's a bunch of stuff that we've got to figure out how this is going to do happen, right?

So there's the pre-pilot preparation, barcode design, kit assembly, platform registration. You know, we've got to figure out what fucking equipment we need, what kind of cameras, how are we going to automate these pieces, right?

But when we get into the lab operations, we're going, okay, we receive it. You know, is there a quality control check? Like, what do we have here, right? Then you've got to basically put it in, you do the analysis, and then you put it into the platform.

Once it gets into the platform, what happens? The platform maybe does some processing, looks at some other things, and prepares for the customer dashboard, right? Dashboard's ready. You know, what do I do on my side of things?

You know, how do we onboard a customer? You know, how do we ship sample kits, track samples, shipments? Like, how do we track this stuff, right? How do we update the dashboard? You know, all the different things like that.

So this was all generated with code. So what we did is I started to tease this into Obsidian with my girlfriend, Gemini.

Actually, I think Claude did this one initially. And when Greg came down and he visited me, because I wanted to actually put this into some type of a visual representation, and Greg said, we'll just get AI to write out BPMN code.

And this is what got spit out, right? And what's great about this is this actually shows us where we need human intervention, shows us opportunity for automation, but it also gives us sort of a plan that we need to follow.

You know, so this is what the customer responsibilities are in different things like that. So this is version one, but this is what we want to do. But this might be a good area where I get you and Tyson involved, because we want to start to think about what equipment do you guys need in the lab, right?

Is there like, what type of automation things? Like, once the test has been spit out, like once your camera has that data, does it come out as a CSV that you can spit right into it?

So there's no, you know, human input into the fucking platform. It just gets spit in. So you got to go, Greg, this is what's coming out. Greg looks at it and he goes, oh, automatically gets ingested, right?

What does the customer want from the dashboard? What is interesting for them to see? You know, we can get into a bunch of different things, right? So we also broke these down. So this is kind of like the high level everything, right?

So this is all the different swim lanes, right? And as you can see, it's pretty logical how it all sort of goes together. And it's a nice visual representation. But I've also built out a bunch of like individual ones, right?

So we can go in and we can get more detailed with individual swim lanes if we want to. But what's nice about it is if we like this or if we want to make any changes or modifications, we just go in and rewrite the code and start to figure out sort of what's going to happen there.

Right. So does this make sense? Yeah. Yeah, I like it. I like it. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd like to It seems like it's preparing for more the actual company processing.

We may or may not have all those things in place at the time. We may do a more simpler version of it for the pilot. But A, it would... Well, yes and no. Yes and no, because don't forget, we're dealing with a CNRL or a Suncor, right?

And we can't look like we're a bunch of fucking monkeys and we're just kind of winging it. Like, if they come in and go, okay, we're going to do this, you know, how does this look? We can bring up this BPMN diagram and go, oh, well, thank you for asking.

Yeah, we've thought this through. This is what's going to be happening and blah, blah, blah. And then we can even show how we're going to bill and collect. Like, we even have to think about this sort of internally, how we're going to do this, right?

So, because we want to make sure if we can get position for a pilot, it's like a fucking well-oiled machine when we roll in, right?

And we know exactly what we're doing. And, you know, even in the lab stuff, we've got quality control. Like, how are you guys... Like, how do you prepare your plates? So, it's consistent, right? How many plates do you...

You know, how much time do you need to grow the bugs? How much time do you need to, you know, put the... You know, smear the bacteria on the plates? Is this a manual process?

Or is there an automated process that we could eventually look at that, you know, increases the quality control? Like, these are things I don't know, but that falls under lab operations, which falls under you, right?

So, everything is manual right now. So, yeah. The automated process could be in the future when you're like, this company's taken off. It is...

We expect to process this many samples. We've got to have a system in place. But we want you thinking in that direction because if something is successful and it looks really good...

Yeah. We want to figure out how we do scale it and we're not caught flat-footed, right? So... Oh, this is where we get Tyson thinking about this because he could...

He'll be motivated to dig out some of the... Oh, we need this equipment to do that. I've looked into it, you know? So, that's a good idea to bring him in.

And it'll be good for him to see how far along we are because... I mean, I had a brief meeting with him on Monday just to, you know, have a... Here's our plan for the week.

And, you know, he's planning a honeymoon trip but he's going in August and he's currently only got a job until June. And it's that year where he's in transition, I'm in transition, where we're banking on the future.

Grants to come through, the possibility that the company revises money is also there, right? But it's tenuous for him right now. So, to have him more engaged and feel the progress that we're all making would be good.

Yeah. Well, let's start to think about that. And once again, I'd be happy to get involved with chatting with him and going, hey, this is kind of what we're thinking we need from you, right?

Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you've been on the research phase of things. Now, it's the operational side of things. And how do we move into that sequence, right? And then from that perspective... A quick one-minute bio break, sorry.

Yeah. And I'm going to have to maybe leave shortly because there's a guy coming to pick up a... I sold a TV unit or something like that.

I'll be right back. Yeah, go ahead. Let's reconnect after lunch because I want to show you this poor man's EA stuff I'm putting together because I think it'll dovetail nicely into some of this operational stuff you're trying to figure out or planning.

So at least we have a structure to put this stuff, even if they're just placeholders, right? And then all of this EA tooling that I put together, just the quick and dirty stuff, this is going to find its way into kind of the platform as well.

I had a conversation with Mark yesterday about it. So I just described it to him and stuff. Yeah. Like EA in the context of like a client, like it's, if you, if you know how they, if you know how elements or aspects of the client operate, then the, you can tune the platform to how your, the client operates, right?

And you're tying it to like the RDoC business capability mapping or are you similar to that? Yeah, so there's an organization called the...

What the fuck is it called again? It's the business... Uh... It's called, oh yeah, it's called the, um, I think it's called the business...

It's a guild. Oh yeah, the Business Architecture Guild. It's kind of a global thing. It's an org. It's not a company. And they publish all kinds of industry standards sort of tooling and resources and stuff for business architects who need a common sort of nomenclature to describe aspects of their business. And it's kind of like a common language.

What's it called again? It's called the Business Architecture Guild. I've got paid resources. I can give you my login so that you can access some of those paid resources.

You fucking pull your wallet out all the time. Although I think I'm going to buy this speech to text thing. When it comes to stuff like this, it's like, yeah, I'll just spend a couple hundred bucks because it's not worth the time agonizing about should I have access to this information or not.

Well send me the login, I'll throw all that shit into wherever we can, into our obsidian vault. Okay. Yeah, so today is really my first day getting my head back into it. I was pretty fucked up over the Christmas break. I wanted to get more work done, but I'm working at a slower pace, but it's time to ramp her up again here.

Greg, did you have a good break? Like a restful? It was pretty good, yeah. Like Mill and I went back to Calgary between Christmas and New Year. So we were in Calgary for that week and Ellie was down, so that was nice. Yeah, I didn't do much over there, but I've been putzing on some other stuff kind of on the bookend of that trip back to Calgary.

Yeah. You got out to Whistler there, I saw there, eh, Sean? Oh, that was a bluebird. Yeah, I got two names. Was that real? That was like a bluebird day.

Was that real? Like, did that... Christmas Day was bluebird. Yeah, it was unbelievable. But I also went on New Year's Day and it was also bluebird. Hey, guys, I got a drop.

I got these guys who just showed up to pick up this thing that I'm selling. So, if you want to chat any other time, I'm ready to go. But I got people at the door here. Yeah, I want to read you next week after lunch.

So, I'll call you back. Okay. See you, Jeff. Okay, guys. Bye. See ya. There was hardly any snow, right? And it was warm and rainy, so it sucked. But just before Christmas Day, there was three days of snow. And then even like someone went two days after Christmas and it was good. It's sort of building up now.

But I haven't skied since like last year, my knees were fine. But in the end of this past summer, my knees got lightly some wear and tear. So I was I've been doing rehab and going to a gym and strengthening all the things to repair my like knees. So I'm working on it. But I haven't skied since like I've never skied with sore knees. So I was fine. They weren't bothering me. But fuck. I have to be very mindful now. Like, can I play soccer?

Or am I done? Like what what what activities am I going to prioritize being able to do? Oh, I maybe can't do all the things I was doing, at least with the level of conditioning that I was doing. So I'm considering if I have a higher level of conditioning, I can still do it. But if not, I'd rather prioritize skiing and just easier things as opposed to soccer, just fucking demanding.

But I think you like when you do those things, you kind of go hard to write like like when you're like for something like soccer, like you're going hard. You're not you're not like. It's it's it's it's not a beer league, right? No, I do. But I can't stop myself. Like I can't control it.

So I I try to aim for like 60 percent max. But then I'm out there giving 80, 75, 80 percent. So, yeah, it's and they're all younger guys. I mean, I could experiment with it.

I could play goalie for f**k sakes and play defense, but then they sometimes I'm like, they'll, they will say, Sean, you need to go up front. Like we need you to score a goal. And I'm like, Oh, f**k. Anyway, if you're around this afternoon too, like I want to walk Jeff through some of this, just some organization I've been doing. I'll ping you this afternoon when I get him on the call and if you're available.

What do you mean organization? Well, I've been trying to distill all of that information in our Obsidian Vault into something more structured so that we have a proper sort of business capability map and what are the value streams and the actual structure.

Like common, like, so if we needed to onboard somebody, like you can't, we can't, I mean we can, we did that with Mark, but just giving someone access to the Obsidian Vault doesn't really help.

Like you kind of need to hold somebody's hand through, hey, like go consume these resources in this area. Whereas like if it's sort of decomposed, if that vault is decomposed into something that's more like intuitive for somebody, then we can, yeah.

And even for our, even for our, even for our, even for our mentor group, right? Yeah. No, that sounds important for me because if I, I have a major organizational goal and it starts with Obsidian.

So I, if it were, if I'm helping learn. Yeah. It sounds like I'll see how you organize Obsidian. Well, what I'm trying to do is actually like, like take away some of the, some of the, the, the necessary organizational requirements so that you can just kind of free form and work the way that you want to and whatever, in whatever form that works for you and how you collect and organize information.

But then take that and distill it into something common. Yeah. Right. So like we can distill Jeff resource, Jeff's information, yours, and maybe even mine and whatnot.

But, and that outputs to something sort of structured and, and adheres to some sort of like common nomenclature when it comes to like business architecture. And you did it, you did it with this maps that you were constructing.

Is that the phase one of it? And now you're realizing you need to do it in other contexts or just improve that process. Yeah. It's, it's, it's kind of like a, it's adjacent to that.

Yeah. So. I do have one meeting with Tyson at one, but other than that one Calvary time, but other than that, I can.

Yeah. Mel and I are going to go for lunch. And then when we get back here after lunch, I'll just ping you guys. And if you're around, we'll just get on a call later, like, you know, one, two or something like that this afternoon. Has it been equally rainy in Victoria this whole time?

Oh, we've had a few sunny days actually. Like yesterday was beautiful. Like the sun was out all day. I didn't get cloudy until the afternoon. It was raining overnight and then into this morning.

I think it's stopped raining now, but it's been like. It's been wet, but I mean, prior to Christmas, it was like most days, I think, there was always sun in the morning, even just for a couple hours, and then it would get overcast and maybe kind of spit or be wet in the afternoon.

I don't know what it's like in Squamish, comparatively speaking, but you do get more rain in that part of the world, don't you? Oh, yeah. It's been pretty solidly raining with a rare day of sun.

Yeah, it's been not too bad. It does make you appreciate the sun in Calgary, though. But Calgary's ranged from like plus something to minus 50 or something, hasn't it, over the last few weeks?

Yeah, yeah, it was like, we left Victoria on Christmas Day and it was like 10, 12 degrees or something like that here, and then we got to Calgary and it was minus 20.

And then it warmed up, though. A Chinook came in a couple of days after we got there and then it was pretty mild for the rest of our time there. But, yeah.

If you put a gun to my head and you told me to choose between one or the other, that's not a hard decision, actually. Well, you were thinking about that, aren't you, at some point, or what?

Well, yeah, I think it'd be nice just to find a way to spend more time in this part of the world. And, like, if you've got a, like, actually, it's been great to have this place, because if you've got a free place to stay, it's not expensive to be out here.

Yeah. It's not any more expensive to be here than it is in Calgary if you've got a free place to stay. Yeah. I think we might try to get on the...

the house-sitting sort of, like, circuit, right? Yeah, there's a whole network of that. And I know this woman who's been doing it for, like, a solid year, and she always has a place to stay.

And I saw her post on Facebook, and she had dozens of people responding to her. She's, like, animal care and house care, and not... There's no exchange of any money in her case, but...

Us, too. Like, we're not... Like, we're not... We're not... We're not getting compensated for doing this, so... There's a younger person who's, like, trying to write her first novel, doesn't have a solid income.

Yeah. So she's literally had a place to stay for at least a year. And her... She's, you know, in the whole Sea to Sky and Vancouver Island.

She is quite an area on the West Coast she's willing to stay in. But a lot of people are looking for help. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway.

Who knows? Maybe give it a year or two, I might have a, maybe I'll get like a, like a cheap little sailboat to sleep on when I want to come out here. Ooh. Right? Does that know what your friends have? Sailboat parks out here?

Well, so Dave and Elise have, they have two boats out here. They, but they, they run a, they, they started a little sailing school last year. Right. Right. And, uh, but I was, when we were back in Calgary over the holidays, I was talking to Dave about it.

I'm like, yeah, what if, what about like a, like a little cruiser that you can do short, short stay liveaboard, you know, kind of week or two or three at a time and keep it out here.

And it's like, yeah, yeah, that's doable. So I might, I might, I might start exploring that and like, see what I can do over the next year, year or so. Cause if you, if you had like a boat in the marina.

Right. Right. Um, and you can get like a 30 foot, you know, boat, they're not that expensive. You need a slip. You need a slip, which that's the problem is finding a slip.

But, um, what's that spot to put it? Yeah. Like in the marina. Yeah. But like, that's actually a pretty cost effective way to, to like live somewhere else, but come out here when you periodically, when you want to just come out here and you want to make a cheap place to stay.

So you would be out on the boat when it's just out in the water or in the slip? Both. Yeah. Like, I mean, you, you, you fly into like fly into, um, Victoria drive.

Right. And then you just, it'd be like, it'd be like a camper on the water. Right. Yeah. And, uh, I know how to sail now.

So I could, I could theoretically, it could, could take it like anywhere, like around the Gulf islands and sunshine coast and all that kind of stuff. Like you could do that kind of stuff.

Right. You already learned how to sail where you can take a boat on your own now. Yeah. Yeah. I got that sail, sail Canada sort of like, you know, that thing that, you know, I wouldn't, I think I'd want to do a lot more sailing before I actually did that solo, but.

Was that through your friends or was that through a different. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they have like a certification that they provide. Yeah. It's through, through sail. They're, they're certified instructors through sail Canada, which, which, um, which, um, grants these, uh, like, I don't know.

They're not really, I guess they're not law. They're not a license, like a driver's license. But if you need, if you want to have a boat and get it insured, you need to have these, you need to have these, uh, this, whatever.

Yeah. It's like a license. Yeah. But I could do that because even when I was doing those courses with them last year, I think three of the times I was out here, I stayed on their boat.

Like one of them, right? Like spring camping, like just bring a sleeping bag and a sleeping pad and stuff and just stay on the boat. And there's a little like their boats, they're not set up for that because they're meant for like teaching and stuff.

So they're not. But there's a head in there. There's a little stove and a sink and stuff. And, you know. It's doable. Yeah. And like the marina that they're in, which is Canoe Cove, just, just, just, just around the corner from Schwartz Bay.

Like that marina's got like, there's a fantastic cafe. So for coffee and like breakfast and stuff, like it's right in the marina.

And they run like a dinner at like a dinner out of that place at night. And it's the one of the former chefs from River Park in Calgary.

Oh. That he and his wife operate this place. But anyway, and in the marina, like there's like, there's like showers and washrooms and laundry facilities. Right. So it's pretty doable.

Like you wouldn't want to live like that long term, but like you could do it like a week or two at a time. Right. Interesting. Anyway, we'll see.

All right, well, I guess we'll sign off and then we'll ping you when you're meeting with Jeff. Is there a marina in Squamish? There is. There is a marina.

They're starting to do some development right around there, but I don't know what they're building. Yeah. But there's no infrastructure like that. There's a small little clubhouse that looks pretty mangy. I've never been in there, but it's probably pretty interesting.

But it's mainly just a place to park the boats. There's like a huge inlet that goes into the town. And it's actually where Daria has an apartment is right on there.

And it's right facing the glacier to the left and the chief to the right. And there's two areas where boats are parked. There's a couple of little spots, too, where people have just delinquent boats that I think they live on.

And they kind of were skirting. It's in this part of town that's kind of like everyone is doing weird shit. It's getting developed really slowly. Yeah.

And everything that's there is probably... In the water or they dry dock? No, they would be in the water in the inlet area.

In the inlet? Yeah. But it's very like... I think they've stopped that. Yeah. Now those people are like... And that same area of land are living in these dingy trailers.

There's a trailer village out there. There's a Tom Waits song where he says, What's he building in there?

What's he building in there? Where he has some neighbor that's hammering away in a garage and he's really curious. It's kind of like that. It used to be grow-ops everywhere, like in sea cans.

Yeah. Because you'd walk through that neighborhood and it was so strong, the smell of weed. They're like, what the fuck? And there'd be huge patches of like bamboo that would just block the view behind a big fence, sea cans everywhere.

And then they became legal. So those things kind of dried up. My friend works in a little tiny trailer that this guy owns a land and he has three or four trailers.

And one of them is his ex-wife who's a jeweler. Like these places are like, I don't know, eight to ten feet wide and 15 feet long. And he has this screen printing shop in there.

And he has a little business with the lowest overhead because I'm sure the rent's so cheap. He probably wouldn't be able, I don't know what he would do if he lost that space, but it's kind of like going soon.

It's probably going to go soon. This little village of independent artists that work in these small spaces. Hey, what are the roads from your place up to Whistler like right these days?

Oh, they're fine. What about, what about, what do you think like from Pemberton through to Cache Creek? What do you think about that? Do you have any idea what the, like that road's like in the winter?

Well, I think it's okay if there's no fresh snow. Yeah. But there could be snow on some of that road. I don't know because I don't drive that too often. I wouldn't. I think if there's not fresh snow, it would probably be okay.

I could ask Catherine because she's more, she lived up in Pemberton. She might know like the general conditions. Yeah, because when we come back, if we come to Squamish for a day and we would, I would probably, if the conditions are good, I'd want to drive back through to Cache Creek that way.

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you could probably just check on that day. Yeah.

I find Squamish so close to Vancouver now that it just seems like you're there in a minute. If you were going to go back to get on the highway to go the other way, Lower Mainland.

Yeah, I think, yeah, it'll all depend on the weather, yeah. If you come through the Horseshoe Bay Ferry, it's about 30 minutes to Squamish from there.

Yeah, I've done that before, like that trip. So, yeah, we would come that way if we were going to come up for a visit.

And I think we will. Would you come and want to stay a night or just come and visit for some time during the day? No, I think we'd probably stay overnight in Squamish.

Probably stay at the inn that's in town there. And then, yeah, stay overnight and then leave the next day.

So we'd probably leave. I'm not sure if we're going to leave here on Wednesday or Thursday, but we would leave, come to Squamish on a Wednesday or Thursday, visit with you guys.

We could do a little bit of work and then stay until the following morning. And then we'd probably like start our drive on whatever the next day is and then be weather dependent, I guess.

Our extra bedroom is the camper in the garage, which could be doable if you wanted to at least sleep there. You could spend a little time in the house. It's an option.

You could stay at the inn. Is the inn the only place in town to stay there? Or is there like... No, there's a couple hotels and there's a couple, like there's a couple, there's a...

Yeah. It's a backpacker type of place, but I don't know what that's like. It looks okay on the outside. Okay. There's a motel downtown. Is that what you're referring to by the inn?

No, isn't there like a brew pub house? There's like a brew pub place and there's an inn. Oh, yeah. The house down brew pub has some rooms there too. There's several other places to stay.

Yeah, I stayed there once. I think the last time I stayed overnight and visited you. Oh, yeah. That's kind of a cool spot there. That's right on the edge of the neighborhood where things get sketchy and that's right by the marina.

The marina is right beside the brew pub there. Okay. All right, I gotta get clean myself up and yeah, I'll ping you guys later this afternoon.

Okay. See ya. Ciao. Bye.

Bye. Bye.

Bye. Bye.

Bye. Bye.

See ya. Thank you.

Thank you. Wow.

Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.

Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

What's the full name of Bricklage? That would be my employer, right? Bricklage Projects Inc. I don't know what they have on file. Did you call me Mel?

Thank you. I mean, it's hard to know.

I mean, this month, not really a minimum. No, but if you just figure like, okay, when will we, like, try to get more games, like... I'm going to open the air.

Thank you. Alright.

I know there's an interesting to help push into the rest of the room. And that is how to use the sensory toilet paper. Thank you.

Thank you. I think I'm ready, you know, I figured you'd say that, but I can't prepare.

I brought a condom. No, silly. What are you doing?

Explosives. Sex is a sin. I'm running out of bed. You notice a bell doesn't really work, and on your lap doesn't really work.

You just go, ahhh. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you.