Speaker 0: Joy Romero being on your board, Joy being the one that John sort of applies for some funding for CNRL. Even tying that into a bit of a story might be helpful for us now.

Speaker 0: This is marketing on sales, inside of me talking because we'd like to try and accelerate this. But our true goal is if we got a commercial pilot in place, it's going to be very different than an academic pilot.

Speaker 0: Our intention is getting the pilot, so they test it, they like it, and they keep it and they turn it into more of a commercial contract. So I kind of have a timeline that I've kind of pushed on myself, but it's also kind of seasonal dependent because that's when things start to melt.

Speaker 0: And I'd really like to actually have all of our contracts in place and an agreement in principle. So when things melt, we can launch in and get a full season of a testing commercial pilot within there.

Speaker 0: So I feel like I've kind of missed out in the fall. I was hoping I could get things advanced a little bit more. But, you know, that's standard with starting up a business, right? Trying to get things going like that. And then the third thing I'll just sort of quickly go, you know, we've talked a little bit about the business school.

Speaker 0: We'd love to have the opportunity to maybe, you know, meet somebody within the business school and sort of see if there's any interest in sort of jumping on the bandwagon of Luminous being birthed into a commercial entity.

Speaker 0: And maybe see if anyone from the MBA program may want to use this as a test case or provide some type of support in that respect as well. So those are the three things I want to talk about.

Speaker 0: I'll stop talking now. But, you know.

Speaker 1: All right. Thank you for that. I'll get the easy one out first. About the business school students. I mean, I don't want to say no.

Speaker 1: What I would like to just point out is that I've had little or limited success in raising their attention. Because they tend to already have their own projects and their interests.

Speaker 1: Because typically when they join the graduate programs, they're coming from industry. So they already have their own track. And it's been not completely unsuccessful.

Speaker 1: But we haven't actually been able to secure anything yet. We can get you in touch. And hopefully somebody will be able to take it on as a project.

Speaker 1: I just want to manage expectations. Because that has been my experience so far. That it's been kind of hard. And that's the reason. And I understand it. Because obviously they're here with certain intentions.

Speaker 1: And when they join the program, if they already have a case that they want to build for which other company they're joining from. Obviously they may even have some funding from them to do it.

Speaker 1: It's really hard to get some of their attention to our projects. But we can still try. No worries. And again, in this case, Terry Beckman is probably the best contact.

Speaker 1: I'll follow up with an email. And introduce it to Terry.

Speaker 0: Terry Beckman. And fully understand. Actually, now that you frame it in that way. You know, somebody rolling into an executive MBA type program. Yeah, they've got some intentions. I just wanted to throw it out there to see if there was any traction.

Speaker 0: That's kind of the least on our priority list as well. But I thought it was interesting if that was something that would be a good idea to you as well. Yeah.

Speaker 1: I did raise it. I had a meeting with Terry probably about three weeks ago. And I did raise his point. And that was what he told me.

Speaker 1: Because I had tried approaching them before. And again, I hadn't been very successful about it. And when I met with him, I understood the reasons why.

Speaker 1: Again, he's open to inviting students to participate. Just it depends on them, right? Yeah. So that one is easy.

Speaker 1: The press release and something about the creation of the spin-off. I believe there will be a lot of interest from our end as well. Because obviously this is the first real trend that we get at the Kereen spin-off company.

Speaker 1: We need to coordinate that with the communications office. And so that means that we need to bring them to this conversation separately. So they know and they can help us in trying to get something done.

Speaker 1: But definitely I believe it's important. You are already formalized, right? So you're registering everything already.

Speaker 0: Yeah. Yeah.

Speaker 1: Yeah. I think we can organize something like that. But I would like to invite them to the conversation, right? So.

Speaker 2: Yeah. Sorry, I can just a little follow-up. I checked in with my colleague who is primarily with their communications office. They have just recently had a departure. So she is just tracking down who's going to be the best contact for us there.

Speaker 2: So that we don't have to wait for him to be replaced. So we should be able to move on that. Really timely fashion in the new year, I'd say.

Speaker 0: Awesome. So I don't want to be the pestering guy, but I've got some timing things. So I have some ideas of what I would like. You know, clearly I wanted to have this conversation now so we could think about it over the Christmas break.

Speaker 0: But kind of when the business starts to kick in and when we actually want to have the timing to sort of release, we'd like to have it kind of like late January to early February timeframe. And that kind of aligns with a little bit of momentum and building it.

Speaker 0: So, and sorry, I, this is a self-imposed, well, it's a seasonal imposed timeline, but I just feel if we miss out on this.

Speaker 3: Well, and Jeff, like to be, I think to be completely transparent and clear, we do have a gate, a gate we need to get through at the end of January with CDL.

Speaker 3: We want to get through, if we want to continue with the CDL program, the next gate we need to pass is I think January the 28th. And I, not having an agreement in place by that time will be a significant impediment to being included in the rest of the program.

Speaker 1: And we're talking about the licensing agreement?

Speaker 3: Yes.

Speaker 1: Sorry. Look, I, I, I, I, I definitely don't like a over-promising and under-delivering. And because this involves not just our office, but also legal, I can almost guarantee you that we're not going to have it ready by then.

Speaker 1: Because it's, there's no sufficient time for us to go through everything in the first four weeks that we have in January. I mean, again, I'm just trying to be realistic, not to be a naysayer, but I don't see that happening in four weeks.

Speaker 0: So maybe we can reframe that into being able to prove significant progress, right? Even if it's coming, getting a letter from you guys saying, you know, or showing that we've, we've got some intentions on both parts, you know, and this is moving forward to the point where, you know, both parties intend on completion might be helpful.

Speaker 0: But we, the whole thing about CDL is all about setting objectives and how much, and when you do, you know, from the first session to the next session, how did you do in advancing that?

Speaker 0: And what came of the, the, the mentor meeting that we had was we, we are realigned because we didn't actually have securing IP as one of our objectives, but we pulled one of the other objectives and put that in.

Speaker 0: And I think I can sell it fairly easily. Like, definitely there was a couple of people that really anchored on this one going, these are kind of table stakes for a business. You're going to have this. And they kept on repeating it.

Speaker 0: And I'm like, I get it. And, and we like this conversation. We, we like the conversation. We understand your limitations and, and it's a legal process. So, but I think what we need to do is just to prove that it is advancing and there's intention.

Speaker 0: So.

Speaker 1: That absolutely we can do. Again, I'm just trying to manage expectations because I know what we can deliver on. So that definitely, I don't think we will be able to deliver in this timeframe.

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Speaker 0: Yeah. Now, now with that being said, if we get fairly far along progressing with getting a commercial pilot, I'm figuring sometime around May is when we need to start to execute.

Speaker 0: That's kind of when they, hopefully the, like, as soon as the water is melted on the tailings ponds is when we actually want things to kick off. So that might be just sort of a date that you guys might want to have in the back of your minds kind of going, you know, if we start proceeding as a commercial entity with this technology, we may need to have that formalized by then.

Speaker 0: That is pretty certain.

Speaker 1: That seems a little bit more feasible. Again, it doesn't just involve our office, it involves other offices. So we, we need to get their input. One thing I can tell you is that we, we are working on a draft and I'll let, at least talk about that in a moment.

Speaker 1: So we already are thinking of how to approach this with a real document. So there's progress being made there. There's a decision that we, we need to make soon, which is our approach, whether it's a equity or royalty based.

Speaker 1: And we know pros and cons of both. And as an institution, we need, we need a decision from the institution. So that's a conversation I'm having next week.

Speaker 1: And based on that, we'll finalize the first draft of this document and we'll start sharing it. But a little is, I'm assuming you're talking there, so a little is talk about it.

Speaker 2: Actually, that was very well encapsulated there. I don't have too much to add, except that we are working on a draft. So we'd be looking at a relationship agreement to govern the relationship between Luminous and AU and then a licensing agreement that would specify sort of royalty or equity whenever we come to.

Speaker 2: So this is fairly new for the institution and total frankness. So we are working through that and advising our leadership teams as we move forward.

Speaker 2: I can say that we're very committed to creating an innovation friendly environment that really encourages innovation. So we're not looking to be, you know, punitive in any way here with the agreement, the ideas that we'd like to be supportive.

Speaker 2: And as I'm sort of drafting that up, I had some questions as I'm working through this about what you would sort of envision the relationship between Luminous and AU to be as you move forward.

Speaker 2: We've talked a little bit about joint communications, joint press release. I was really pleased in our last meeting to hear that Sean's very committed to being in Alberta. I think that's really key for us.

Speaker 2: But I'm wondering if there's been any further discussions on your side about how you'd like that relationship to look going forward.

Speaker 0: Yeah. So one of the things I'm going to speak for Sean, but Sean's not here. Sean, I'm sure. And I think he'd be fine. But one of the things actually, I think that he has really liked about being with Athabasca University is it is actually a smaller institution.

Speaker 0: And he's had, let's call it academic freedoms to kind of do what he needed to do. So you guys have been very supportive of him in regards to him being able to advance his technology to the point where it's pretty much like we're figuring there's a TRL level about eight now, which is really great because it's kind of commercially viable now.

Speaker 0: Right. So like it's ready for that next step. So, you know, we want you guys to actually get a lot of the street cred.

Speaker 0: So like I haven't put AU on our website yet. Not that we're doing a lot with our website, but like co-branding and stuff like that. We want to make sure that you are getting credibility of where we came out of.

Speaker 0: That's that's one of the things that we're more than happy to do. Sean is looking to do like I Sean's looking to continue at at AU and still do additional research.

Speaker 0: Right. So he's talking about next round of advancement. I'm sure you guys are very much aware of what his plans are to sort of evolve what we're doing. So I believe his intentions and he I don't want to speak for him is to continue him to have the research arm kind of through a you.

Speaker 0: But then we've got this commercial entity that's been sort of birthed. And the only question that I have right now is we haven't come to terms with how we're actually going to price the service.

Speaker 0: And we're not going to do it like like right now, the way that testing is done, it's a price per test. It's high resolution mass spectrometry. You know, here's your test. Pay me this money.

Speaker 0: Whereas we actually want to change the paradigm and we want to actually look at it as because the tests we want to do. Massive testing, both deep as well as frequent.

Speaker 0: And what that means is we can get a higher resolution in the water as to how it is. And we don't want our customers looking at it from a price per test because that will limit what they want to do.

Speaker 0: And we believe that more testing is going to give a higher resolution and get better informed decisions is kind of how we want to structure it. So. I'm being completely transparent with you.

Speaker 0: We are trying to determine a what the value is to the businesses that we're providing the service to. We're going to figure out our costs and stuff like that. And we need to make sure that we're doing it in a way that is of high value to both entities.

Speaker 0: Now, from our perspective, there's going to be a lot of other things. So we have to pay for technicians to be doing the tests. We're going to actually like there's a whole bunch of different variables to the service we're going to be providing. Greg being the technologist, he's developed the relational context engine, which is the data platform that will be compiling all the data.

Speaker 0: So there's going to be a bunch of moving parts to the service. And the biosensor is one component of it all. And we haven't actually determined how the licensing would go.

Speaker 0: So these are conversations that we'd actually like to have back and forth and open, you know, because honestly, we are figuring this out as we're going along right now. And then there's the other conversation of what are our customers willing to pay for it? Right.

Speaker 0: So and and hopefully it starts here and it grows to a large scale. Right. That's that's the whole goal is we get a commercial pilot going. It proves it's not like an academic pilot where you can do the pilot.

Speaker 0: They shut it down. You go write a paper. We want it to be a commercial pilot where it gets in place. It stays and then it grows is really what our intention is. So is that helpful?

Speaker 1: Yeah.

Speaker 0: Is that a good answer to your question? Elise, I don't know if I've made sense.

Speaker 2: Yeah, that was a great start. And I was also learning a little bit about your physical operations and things. And if we've landed on your end on where you might actually like to be. And you obviously we are grounded and located in the town and county of Athabasca.

Speaker 2: But we also have relationships with the regional innovation network in Webuffalo. So there's there's a few avenues of support that we could tap into a few ways that we could bring extra support to Sean or be involved in those larger innovation ecosystems with Luminous.

Speaker 2: But it was there depend on where you actually set up shop.

Speaker 0: Yep. The answer is we don't know. Like, okay, there's been a lot of moving parts, but there's there's a lot of things that make sense of having our lab closer to the all sands operations.

Speaker 0: There really is. Now, I personally live in Lacombe and I have a place in Calgary. Greg lives in Calgary. Sean's living in Squamish. Logistically, we're trying to figure this all out.

Speaker 0: But the nice part about the way that we're going to structure the service that we're providing is, is that the testing is fairly straightforward. Now, we also have Sean's lab at the University of Calgary, and he has Tyson Bookout as his lab manager.

Speaker 0: And he's going to be a core piece of our business as well when we raise some money and probably we'll be pulling him into to Luminous as well. So there might be a period of time where we have to do it close to Tyson.

Speaker 0: Maybe or probably we haven't sort of figured that out, start maybe some of the commercial pilots out of the University of Calgary, just because that's where it is.

Speaker 0: But as we scale, we do need to find a new home. Now, we believe that we only need a technician level person to actually perform the tests.

Speaker 0: So when you get into high resolution mass spec, you typically need a graduate level individual that's, you know, turning the knobs and pushing the buttons and stuff like that. But with our test, because it's a fairly straightforward and simple test, we can hire sort of a technician level person, which makes it more scalable.

Speaker 0: Right. So you can you can hire different people that have a different skill set. You can train them. You have better access to them. And you might not necessarily be looking at sort of research, research level, graduate level type people.

Speaker 0: So if we set up a lab in what Buffalo or the Athabasca region, we just need access to talent to be able to perform the perform the tests and do that.

Speaker 0: But so we're open to the ideas. Absolutely. But I just wanted to give you the context of what we're sort of figuring in regards to delivering the service. That makes sense.

Speaker 1: Absolutely. Yeah. And just a quick, quick question. This, I mean, it's technical, but this is 100% based on mass spec, right?

Speaker 1: So all the testing has to be done with a mass spectrometer, right?

Speaker 0: So the way that we're proposing the solution, and actually there is just a, the NAFC workshop that we were in in January, in July, just released their notes on it.

Speaker 0: So we believe that mass spectrometry will be the gold standard for water release standards. But where we fit is in between the testing, right?

Speaker 0: So you do a big test and it's like, this is where it's at. This is the level. And then we do a bunch of tests where we'll do the screening. And as they're going through a remediation process, you'll start to see the trend lines, whether the NA's are being broken down, if it's going down, if it's going up, if it's stalled, different things like that.

Speaker 0: So we're giving the operational intelligence and then prior to releasing the water, we believe that, you know, do another test there. So the mass spec is designed for very specific applications.

Speaker 0: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Sorry, sorry. I forgot to frame it. For the pilot, you need the mass spec, right? Because as far as I know, we don't have one at the EU, so that there may be a limiting factor.

Speaker 1: I mean, we can get access probably at the EU of A, but in Tabasca. I mean, just need to ask a few questions, but I'm almost sure that we don't have that technology yet.

Speaker 0: Yeah. Sean has relationships with different people that are the mass spec guys, because Sean's been in that space. There's quite a few that he has access to. There's one guy at Saskatoon, another guy, Ralph, out of Cochrane.

Speaker 0: Like he knows kind of the guys that are the mass spec guys. So we do have those relationships in place. And really what Luminous is intending on doing is we'll probably sub that out to somebody to do the mass spec piece, and then we'll do that.

Speaker 0: And then we'll validate through the mass spec.

Speaker 1: But again, that's just for the validation aspect of it, right? Because in the end, the solution is not to go that route, right? That's why the whole invention is for, right?

Speaker 3: Well, to clarify there, we always believe that mass spec will bookend like the entire remediation process. What we're getting at is that we want to do high frequency testing throughout the remediation process.

Speaker 3: But then, yeah, basically the remediation is bookended by mass spec, but the thousands of tests that occur between those two endpoints would be done with the biosensor.

Speaker 1: And probably will you use that also for quality assurance or?

Speaker 3: Yeah, so Sean's publishing a paper. He's trying to get the draft out by the end of the year. He, Jeff, you can probably speak to it better, but he has, he's got high correlation on the Curl Wetland pilot that was run.

Speaker 3: He has high correlation between the biosensor and the mass spec test that were done at the same time. So he's got a paper he's pretty excited about that the, that what that, what that, what that testing showed was that the biosensor can be used also for quantitative analysis.

Speaker 3: And the, the, the, the trend lines that were, were taken with mass spec and his biosensor and Curl, they, they, they overlap to a, to a degree that he feels like he can publish a paper on the quantitative value of the biosensor.

Speaker 3: So there, there might be a lot, like there might be a broader fit even for the biosensor than originally thought just because of the, what seems to be the high accuracy of them. So.

Speaker 1: And for that, you would need just a luminometer or a plate reader or something like that, right?

Speaker 0: Yeah, exactly.

Speaker 3: Yeah.

Speaker 1: Okay. Sorry. Sorry about.

Speaker 0: Actually, actually interesting enough, Dr. Renzis, what, what's also interesting is we've recently had conversations is there are tremendously good technologies in camera technology.

Speaker 0: And then I don't, I can't remember, like we were, we're thinking there may be an opportunity to even invent the camera technology or, or develop the camera technology ourselves.

Speaker 0: And that could even be through like an Athabasca U grant program or something to that effect, right? So, so there's a, there's a bunch of things that we can spin off, but it's all very new. What we're really excited about is our TRL levels of the technologies that Greg has developed in the biosensors is pretty much ready to roll.

Speaker 0: And we're excited about that. And we kind of need these commercial pilots. We need to raise some money to actually kind of put these final sort of pieces together to determine, you know, and, and friendly customers really to sort of be gracious enough to allow us to develop along with this commercial pilot to, to make it a solution that's really beneficial to, to them.

Speaker 0: Right. So.

Speaker 1: And in the end, it has to be also financially viable, right? Okay. I think we got some, some information that we needed.

Speaker 1: We're going to continue working on the licensing agreement and the relationship agreement. Um, at least a, when do you think we could have something to share with them so we can start, uh, even discussing with, with that or own legal and other things.

Speaker 2: Um, it, it sort of depends on the results of our conversations next week with the wrench in the thing being that my last day before the holidays is Thursday. Um, so I'd say early in the new year, I think a letter of intent is very doable, uh, in early January that I could work on drafting, um, for you to circulate even before I head out.

Speaker 2: Um, so that we could get working on that. And then that could give you some reassurance that we are working on this. We're just, you know, it's a big ship. We just don't earn time. You're in a small university. Um, but please be sure that we are working behind the scenes.

Speaker 2: Um, some of the info we've got here will like inform that relationship agreement. We can talk about use of the logo that, you know, we're very happy to pursue, really happy to be part of your success story, really.

Speaker 2: Cause I know it's going to be a success story. I'm very confident there. I think I support you.

Speaker 3: I think a letter of intent would, um, uh, would be sufficient for the, the mentor, the CDL mentor group to just to demonstrate that there is meaningful progress towards that end.

Speaker 3: So, yeah. Mm-hmm.

Speaker 2: And if, uh, if need be, we could separate sort of the signing of the relationship agreement from the, um, ultimate, like, uh, licensing agreement, just so you could have some progress on that. Because I suspect the second will take a little bit more time.

Speaker 2: Um, as you know, we have to have these discussions because this is quite new for us. And, you know, honestly, I looked back at some, some previous agreements that are now more than a decade old, and they just didn't seem inventor friendly enough for me to recommend that we sort of replicate that agreement.

Speaker 2: Yeah. It's, no.

Speaker 1: Yeah, they turn through a little bit draconian and, uh, what we want is to help you flourish, not to kill you on the spot, right? Yeah.

Speaker 0: Well, you know what, and I, and you know what, I, I've, I've appreciated our conversations, right? And, um, like, I'm very optimistic of this relationship.

Speaker 0: And I think it's because of the size of the entity you are, as opposed to a massive, massive institution that's kind of done it before and it can be bureaucratic. And, uh, I wanted to kind of yell at the mentors personally, because they, you know, you could see they, they really anchored on it and they're like kind of freaking out about it, but I'm pretty optimistic.

Speaker 0: And, and more what I'm really excited about is, is if we have a significant contribution to addressing this massive environmental challenge, like it's just a great story for everybody.

Speaker 0: And that's really one of the reasons that we're all kind of excited about it, but we're dealing with very large oil and gas companies. We're dealing with, you know, regulatory bodies and stuff and, and a lot of science-y people, which everybody has an opinion, right?

Speaker 0: So, but, and there's some niche in the market, right? A hundred percent. So I think we're pushing the bull down the road and I think it's been going fairly rapidly. So I'm, I'm very optimistic and I, and I appreciate, you know, you're just saying that, you know, you want to work with helping us be successful.

Speaker 0: Cause I want us all to be successful in this entity. So that's pretty neat.

Speaker 1: And this is something that I will always be supportive because I myself, I would always wanted, would have wanted to do something like this, have, have an impact because I have said it before.

Speaker 1: I know where all my research is. I need sitting on, on lab books in the lab, right? And I have papers out and people read those papers, but making the impact or having that impact.

Speaker 1: It takes more than that. Right? So, and it's great to contribute with the, the literature, but at some point, if you get something out that actually can make a practical solution to an existing program, I think this is great.

Speaker 1: And in particular in this province for that problem, I think it's, it's massive, massive achievement.

Speaker 0: So just with you saying that right there, what would also be good from a relationship perspective is us sharing with you sort of our product roadmap or product evolution, like where we want to go.

Speaker 0: And, and maybe we actually have conversations is how we work together to actually, you know, set that objective because there are tremendous things happen in academia, right? Like very smart people, the research done funding's kind of there.

Speaker 0: And, and, and, and, you know, that's a really good incubator for it. And then how do we spur that out? so even like we have a vision of bioaugmentation as is the next step now we figured that that TRL level is probably around a two to three you know right now we've got these TRL levels that are high and ready to go so we better capitalize on that but at the same time in the incubator we want to actually start to and we see a real fit for the bioaugmentation with engineered and controlled wetlands and now we're in a we're in a scenario where we're test breaks technology validates and correlates all that data remediate test and we basically get this going like that right so not in the near like if we if we raise some money ourselves maybe we can actually start to do some funding but Sean's already talking to CNRL about some academic funding for this next stage of his research right so when you guys start to understand what our roadmap is you know we can start to align and we can we can sort of be ahead of the curve in regards to making sure that everything's working appropriately and and you guys know what we're doing and we know what you're doing and we

Speaker 1: know we know how to operate together right so that that's actually a very good point because if I mean I don't I don't think there's a a lot of doubt about the the potential success of this this company and even if it if it doesn't reach the level of success that where we can evolve and and do other things I think there's still a lot of value for us so one thing I would like to to ask if possible is a not for I to ask if you could help us a sell this idea to other people in the at the university so having a presentation about a this roadmap and that you're talking about about the product and how you see your engagement with industry and how they're perceiving a the uptake of this invention that would be great for us to a finalize certain conversations on our end to get full support because right now it's a little bit of a proof of concept is let's see we can make it work and we'll figure out if later on if this is something that we want to continue doing or just it was great having you move on so to sell that part I believe that there's again a lot of potential in this in this project and this product and we would do much better if you guys bring it to us because you know the technical aspects of it and you know the field you know the gap that you're trying to fill much much better than than we do right right and in this case I'm putting Sean on your side of the equation because of his for his reasons even though he's an AU member I think he he knows much more about it now one thing that I

Speaker 0: really like at least what you said is you're calling it a relationship agreement and I never thought about it in that respect but I actually like the term because it's a relationship and we come to an agreement like I that's that's a friendly term as opposed to you know like terms and conditions and stuff like that I really like that so when you kind of can't get something stubbed out I'd love to have a look at it and I'd like to get my feedback on on the relationship agreement as well because um it's uh yeah it's it's it's an important relationship in my mind so that's great and as I will put together I'll start to think about actually how to formulate sort of giving you something to help sell this within uh within AU as well so

Speaker 1: yes because uh obviously if at some point we need to start asking for money to invest in certain things here we need that right it's very important all right uh I believe we we touch on those three points that you wanted to touch uh unless you want to uh go deeper into one of them

Speaker 0: no I you know what I just want to have the conversation before Christmas uh break so we can actually all sort of think about what's going on and then I've kind of given you my idea idea of time more lines we we do have this Greg I think was the 27th or was the 28th that we have our next mentor day um and we need to prove progress so like I think uh and uh letter of intent or something like that just so we can push that the marketing piece is just going to help me to grease the wheels with CNRL and um and uh and Suncor it's just kind of another sort of validation as to where we're going and stuff like that so no I appreciate the time and you know at least I was going to say we should cancel Christmas because you know this is uh you know a four alarm fire but you know I can't be discouraged so I

Speaker 2: you know you're allowed to take your break no Christmas sorry it's on but I promise you this is on my to-do list with a little mark that it has to be done before the holidays it's marked as must-do before vacation so definitely I'll be moving these pieces forward to the best of my ability uh before Thursday at 4th

Speaker 0: I appreciate that yeah no this has been great thank you very much for your guys's time and thank you everybody have a great great great break over the holiday season yeah enjoy Bernie let me know when you're back in town because I'm in Calgary too are you really yeah I did not know that okay well we

Speaker 2: should do coffee that'd be great we absolutely should yes okay okay love it great okay thanks have a great holidays take care enjoy the holiday bye-bye thank you um
