# Business Capability Realization
At this point, we have established a business capability model that has been anchored with our business partners. While that is a great tool to have, the key to making it useful is to detail realization. We need to identify what we can understand better and the problems we can solve by having a business capability model. This will ultimately guide us in determining what we want to connect the model to.

### Key Questions BCR Can Answer:
- How are my capabilities implemented? 
- Do the most important capabilities have the right investment* to succeed? Are we depending on critical roles, applications, or technology that are old or overleveraged?
- Who is responsible for our critical capabilities and who helps realize these capabilities?
- How interconnected and complex are these capabilities?
- How mature is our ability to realize a critical capability and what is the desired maturity?
- What areas of the organization need investment or improvement?Important LinksWhat are Business Capabilities?

### Dependencies:
- The Business Capability Realization guide requires application, capability, people and department data to already be established in Ardoq

### Benefits:
- An overview of how the business operates in practice.
- Efficient annual budget and planning process*.
- Insights into organizational impact of change and dependencies.
- Provide a complexity baseline for identifying inefficiencies in both business and IT.
- Better business engagement by focusing strategy and capabilities instead of technology.
- Roll-up information to summarize in business terms.
- Lay the foundation for subsequent steps in the Enterprise Architecture Plan (Application Rationalization, Capability Roadmapping, Strategic Gap Analysis, etc).

### Tangible Outcomes:
- Business capabilities and their metadata (market differentiation, maturity, complexity).
- Capabilities and Realization relationships (Applications).
- Business Capability Data Quality Dashboard
- Enterprise Architecture Business Capability Dashboard.
- Enterprise Architecture Business Capability Realization Presentation.