# Why Application Lifecycle Management Is Important for Organizations

Application Lifecycle Management is intended to increase the overall quality and efficiency of your IT landscape. It provides a clear direction for your applications by defining their business case and requirements before implementation. ALM enables organizations to avoid security risks, cost risks, and technology risks through continuous maintenance after deployment.

## Security risks

Applications are constantly evolving. If left unmaintained, organizations can quickly become vulnerable to cyber or hardware attacks as they continue operating with legacy technologies. ALM empowers key stakeholders and IT teams to forecast and avoid security threats by identifying which applications require an update or elimination, looking for a replacement, and planning the next steps for upgrade or migration.

## Cost risks

It is tempting to avoid upgrade or migration costs, but the true cost of legacy applications far outweighs the initial investment. Legacy applications expose organizations to data breaches that cost large amounts of money every year to fix. Moreover, they can cause reputational damage, which also translates into financial losses as the company loses business to competitors. According to the [Cost of Data Breach Report 2020](https://www.ibm.com/security/data-breach) by the [Ponemon Institute](https://www.ponemon.org/), data breaches can cost these organizations USD 3.86 million annually on average.

Another aspect to consider is the cost of hours spent on maintenance for legacy applications. Legacy applications require more time from your IT department as they suffer a higher failure rate. Your IT personnel are then forced to focus on responding to bugs, troubleshooting, integrating changes, or tracking down rare replacement parts that may even be discontinued, instead of concentrating on projects that increase business growth and operational efficiency.

In essence, ALM helps organizations to prevent attacks, and saves resources, costs, time, and reputation.

## Technology risks

Ideally, when an application has reached its end-of-life, a successor should already be in place. Poor application lifecycle management can hinder this from happening and even make your applications unusable. This represents a huge risk for organizations, as it can impact entire departments whose day-to-day operations are dependent upon those applications.