# The Phases of Application Lifecycle Management

The Application Lifecycle Management phases have traditionally been requirements specification, development, testing, deployment, and maintenance.

We recommend using more efficient phases that are the most relevant from an Enterprise Architecture point of view, and that work for your different component types. These phases are:

## Evaluation

Use this data field on applications that have pending implementation agreements. In this phase, key stakeholders assess if they have a use for the application and if it’s a good idea to develop it or invest in it.

## Implementing

Use this field to label those applications that are currently being developed or implemented.

## Live

Use this field to identify those applications that are deployed and live. When applications reach this phase, maintenance work becomes a priority.

## Phasing out

Use this field on applications that will soon be retired but are still live on production.

## Retired

Use this field on applications that have already been removed.

If you find your organization needing different or more specific phases, you can absolutely [create more fields](https://help.ardoq.com/en/articles/44183-add-and-manage-fields). Ardoq’s flexibility allows you to add [custom fields](https://help.ardoq.com/en/articles/44174-use-custom-fields-to-enable-data-informed-decisions) to capture different [types of data](https://help.ardoq.com/en/articles/44158-what-is-a-field#h_868913e57d), such as lists and date ranges, which can later be used to create roadmaps, filter your data, and visualize it in different ways.