Hi, Tyler. I'm doing well. How are you guys? Hi, Tyler. Good. Great. I didn't let you know, but I did invite two of my colleagues and business partners to join on the call who are mainly listening. And the learning phase about everything to do with napsonic acids. I hope that's okay. Yeah, of course. For sure. How would you like to start? Do you want to do a round of introductions and then dig into it? That sounds good. Sure. I'll go first because I'm already yapping. My name is Ty Van Ness. I am the director of monitoring with Canada's Oil Sands Innovation Alliance. Under the Pathways Alliance. I was reached out to by Caroline G's, can't think of her last name. Wakefield. Wakefield. Thank you. To discuss how industry within the oil sands is currently working within the arena of napsonic acids. And so I provided her with this clarity and I'll provide it here now. I primarily work in representation of two industry on the regional monitoring program known as the Oil Sense Monitoring Program, which is the accountability of the federal government and the province of Alberta. And it's a multi-stakeholder environmental monitoring program made up of an industry caucus, an indigenous caucus, which has a First Nations and Métis subcaucus. And then a government caucus made up of the feds in the province. And so there are several programs within the scope of the regional monitoring context that do monitor for napsonic acids, including surface water, quality monitoring, various wetlands monitoring programs, as well as an active air pollutant deposition monitoring program, which is run by the feds. That said, I shared with Caroline that I work within this alliance and I am obviously working quite closely with industry members that have their own monitoring initiatives. And as napsonic acids become, you know, a focal point of concern or let's say an emerging, an emerging area of focus. For sure, this is an area of interest for various groups within the Pathways Alliance model, as well as the individual, let's say, big six oil companies that make up the member membership of Pathways Alliance. I'm going to shut up there. Maybe I'll pass it over to you, Sean, please. Go ahead. Okay. So we had Carolyn and another consultant through Edmonton Unlimited doing some market research around this biosensor technology that I've been working on for 10 years. So that's, so that's, she got, I put her in touch with someone that you know, and his name's escaping me right now, who used to be associated with the oil sands monitoring program. And Fred, and Fred passed your name on to Carolyn. So that was the communication there. I was 10 years at the University of Calgary as a professor working on sort of microbial infections and doing stuff like antibiotic discovery and realizing, always interested in applied research, you know, like actual treatments of diseases, realizing it was a very complex path. And I switched into environmental micro and oil sands microbiology and moved from the University of Calgary to Athabasca University. So my research changed, my affiliation changed, but I still have a lab in Calgary and I still do the basic lab research in the University of Calgary. And for 10 years, we've been working on this biosensor for naphthenic acids detection. And the two gentlemen below that will introduce themselves are sort of my business partners on a company that we were calling luminous bio solutions. It's not out in the public yet. We've been working on all the piece, the science, the patents, the publications, and all the infrastructure for our company to come out. So we're kind of ready to roll. The market research was in addition to the years of me looking into all these questions about how and really was that really hard question to answer. How much we have a really good test that detects naphthenic acids really well, but who needs this test? We know that the oil sands industry needs it. We know that there's an oil sands monitoring program by the government. We know there's third party monitoring companies that offer some services. We know kind of about the analytical methods that are out there, how costly they are. Starting to figure out more about what's the regulation that exists. Is there much regulation? And hoping that there'd be this perfect storm of there's a need for the test and there's this high throughput, inexpensive, specific naphthenic acid detection test that could be employed. So the company is around the initially we have this biosensor net monitoring technology available for testing NA in water. This is engineered microbes that luminesce when they detect naphthenic acids. So it's about identity. The biology is defining the specific genes that might, that the bacteria we isolated from tailings ponds. A big part of it is using microbes that are accustomed to growing in environment with, with naphthenic acids. They turn on specific genes to either degrade naphthenic acids or protect themselves from naphthenic acids or various other genes. And we've fused those switches, the on-off switches to a reporter, which in our case is luminescence. So they luminesce when you can actually grow them in a very small volume of OSPW and they will luminesce. And it's not presence or absence. It's almost quantitative because the more NA in the water, the more gene expression, the more luminescence that you get. So we have three, at least three good biosensors that detect individual compounds that are present in a mixture and they have different specificities. So it's kind of like they're seeing key biomarkers. Some see only acyclic naphthenic acids. One sensor responds to only acyclic, so fatty acids. Another one sees typical NA structures. And the third responds to more complex NA compounds. So we also are, these tests, these biosensors are also very useful for showing bioremediation by doing lab scale experiments with bacteria and measuring the disappearance of NA. So we're doing a, we're proposing to do a wide scale screening of everything that we can grow out of a tailings pond. Identify the degraders, identify a community of degraders that could possibly be used in a bioremediation application. So it's, the work's been funded by CNRL and NSERC. It's in the sixth year and final year, there was an extension for one year for COVID. So now we're applying for phase two from NSERC. Also ask for CNRL to see if they will support a second round, which I think they will. In another project, one of the partners, it's a big genomics project with many universities, but also Imperial Oil. And they're using a constructed wetland on their lands to use water treatment with the wetlands. So filtering through the tailings water. In that case, we have an opportunity to do this pilot study of seeing if the water is being treated, if NA is being reduced, using our biosensor, but also the cutting edge mass spectrometry with John Headley from Environment Canada, who's kind of like the lead in Canada for developing mass spec methods. So he's a collaborator of ours. And CNRL has also said, we have a plan in 2025 to develop a wetland. Would the biosensor be available to be used there to test the water coming out of our wetland? And we said yes. So it's ready to be used. And the company's on the verge of sort of being public. And I think there's that piece we're still digging into about who and when and how much testing is being done and reaching out to people like you and identifying all the players. And then so we can go and present how well it works. I think I could pass it on to Greg or Jeff. Sure. I'll just give you like a 30-second sort of background. I've known Sean for decades. I've also known Jeff for decades. But I've been in the, unlike Sean, whose career has been in academia, I've been in the technology space for my entire career. And I've been involved. I'm in Calgary. I've been involved in the tech scene in Calgary for, since the late 90s. Involved with like startups and consultancies and software dev shops and whatnot. And this was coming together with Sean over the last couple of years. And more poignantly, like in 2024, when we were talking about how to commercialize this as this patent comes to kind of completion, that process. Like, my role in the company is actually setting up all the technology infrastructure that would support, you know, the services that would be offered through like Luminous. And then all the data backhauling and reporting and analysis and introspection and whatnot on the data side of things. So that's kind of what my role is. Go ahead. And I'm Jeff. So I've known Greg for a very, very long time. Greg's introduced me to Sean. I'm an outdoor enthusiast. I've been more on the business development side of things. So I've been in tech for 30 plus years. My wife's father's actually, he was a biologist for many years with the Alberta government. And typically working in wetland and watershed type work. So I find this very interesting, actually, because I see a really interesting technology that's evolving for a novel problem that we have in the tailings ponds. And I think that Greg and I can bring a really interesting technology play to it. So Sean's got some really great biosensor technology. You know, we sort of mask it up with some very good technology to actually present the information, allow analytics and stuff like that. But more importantly, I think that what's really interesting on the long play is the remediation component of the biotechnology as well. Right. So it was cool to look at the sensors. That's really neat. And it's effective. And we see where it's going. We see NAs being kind of a novel thing, like you were saying. And it's probably a lot nastier than anybody really wants to talk about. But let's be honest, that that is going to be something that has to be addressed. But what I'm really interested in is actually seeing the, Sean, evolve it to the point. And, Sean, I wouldn't mind even talking a little bit about some of the results you're seeing on the remediation aspect. Yeah, sure. Well, what's your take, Ty, on the treatment? Like, from what I've gathered, you know, there's lots of methods that have been shown to treat N.A. But the wetland treatment and use of bioremediation and plants and maybe other processes that absorption or whatnot, it seems like that's the most likely route that will be employed to treat the water. I think so. I think you're right in that regard. And it's really going to depend, I mean, end of the day, on where the federal government goes in terms of refining regulatory framework around nanothetic acids specifically. And I would say, given the elevated attention that in recent, as recent as the last couple of months, that indigenous communities in particular that are, you know, living and practicing traditional lifestyles within the oil sands region are identifying this as a crucial parameter that needs to be more, more heavily considered by both the feds and the province in regulatory evolution on the oil and gas sector. And so, long-windedly, I think that the lowest hanging fruit for industry is what is most cost effective. Industry is a business. Each of the companies that I represent, obviously, are working to, first and foremost, protect their bottom line. But I, you know, I'm quite proud of the fact that I work within an industry in the Canadian context that isn't necessarily always hung up on what is the least costing technology that I can employ to ensure I fit my regulatory requirements. Rather, what is the most cost effective, rather, what is the most useful technology that I can employ? Yes, I want it to be cost effective, but is it going to address the concern in a meaningful way? Is it going to provide me with that assurance that I'm monitoring for the right areas specifically as they relate to, in this case, a really harmful outcome of oil sands development? And so, I think you guys are, what I'm hearing so far, and what I had, you know, briefly touched on with Carolyn, I think what you guys are doing, and the fact that you're already in contact and have been working in some form, in particular with a company like CNRL, who, let's be honest, are very protective of their pocketbook. That's a politically correct way to say it. Other people may say something differently. Sorry. Yeah. But at any rate, the fact that you've already got some form of buy-in with a company like CNRL, that right away is a flag for me that you guys are developing something meaningful, that if the most fickle company in the Canadian context is already, you know, kind of flirting with, you've clearly got something. So, I don't know if that answers your question fulsome, but it certainly long-windedly tries to. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm curious what has gone on in the last few months, but I know that in the last year, was it 2023, the Imperial breach that caused some concern amongst Indigenous communities and everyone about the safety, right? Because they are often presented as these, the contained, the ponds are safe. The water doesn't leak. There's so many, there's so many things I wanted to mention about that. So, the timing is right for sure. Yes. The thing about that, there's a few aspects of the treatment that it's pretty basic. Like, they deliver, so there is, I'm in a pilot program, so I'm getting to see this firsthand, where they, A, they can show that the NAs are being treated and really integrated in these wetlands over time. They, there's a smaller scale experiment taking in something called a mesocosm, where it's like a big rubber container with soil and plants, and you can add tailings water, and you can use those as smaller scale experiments to measure degradation. You can influence the plant communities and see how, how, which plants help the most. But the degradation is through the plants and the microbes, but it's only these low, already present microbes in the tailings ponds. They're the ones doing the work. That's where most of the, there's decades of microbiology experience in Alberta on sort of tailings ponds. We already know that the microbes there can degrade in lab scale experiments. We don't really know the mechanisms of how they do it, but we know that, like, we don't know which genes and pathways. From a research perspective, that's what we're also doing with our biosensor tool because it's so high throughput. So it, it's something you can test a lot of samples in a very low volume in a high throughput way for inexpensive relative to the analytical method. So we see it as a screening tool where you want to screen a large number of samples where you can go and take a lot of sampling from different depths and different ponds and different, like, there's somewhat limited sampling when you're paying several hundred dollars. For example, and you're wanting to report on the NA concentrations. If you could have a more comprehensive picture, you could do this high throughput method and then go in and focus on a smaller percentage of the ones that are positive, where you want more resolution with say a mass spec. So I don't have a sense of how many tests are being done. That's something I'm really curious. And is there a need for a high throughput test? And about like the regulation is that the water is stored. And I think you were referring to when they make a regulatory policy about how it can be released under which conditions. That's, that's what is not clear. Right. So they need to have that in place before they treat the water and release it. That's right. But it's sort of imminent because we can't just keep adding more water, even though they're recycling. There's limited space. There's more liability, the larger the volumes of water get. So I did like you. I'm impressed with how much work they're doing around treatment now instead of it's not lip service. There's a lot of money being invested on figuring out how to treat it and particularly around NA. Okay. So when you, where is, what the, Josem was the former entity that you currently work for? Yeah. So Josem was primarily led by the feds and in fine federal government fashion. And they, they typically go through, you know, a look in the mirror initiative that essentially turns into a devolution process. And so Josem switched over to OSUM, which I mean, the acronym, it went from joint oil sands monitoring to oil sands monitoring. And so the primary driving mechanism now is the province, but the federal government is still at the table. There are still political games being played between the two and, you know, it's still very much so in the purview of the, of the feds, uh, as it was when it was Josem. So I believe the change took place around the time of, uh, what was called AMERA, the Alberta environmental monitoring and reporting agency, uh, fact reporting agency. Anyway, um, I think it worked for AMERA. Fred was at the time, the, uh, chief scientists of Alberta and in Alberta environment. And so he was on the board of AMERA, um, and, and it was, uh, treated almost like an arm's length corporation of the crown, um, with the premise of, if you are an arm's length entity, you're not beholden to the same policies and processes that, uh, dictate how a government department runs. So in this case, specifically around how funding for the oil sands monitoring, like the regional monitoring effort is accessed and, and distributed. Because I can tell you in its modern form, the oil sands monitoring program is run through, um, government of Alberta process through the treasury board. And they don't care about a, uh, uh, you know, an effective, nimble, um, you know, impactful, responsible environmental monitoring program. They treat every dollar like it's public general tax revenue regardless. So AMERA was set up to come combat that outcome. Um, because frustratingly, if you're running a, a, a monitoring program, that's multifaceted across thematic areas and, you know, through quarter three, um, it's becoming quite evident that a program that was supportive. So AMERA is going to make a lot of $8 million dollars for the current fiscal is not going to spend it. Well, maybe we could leverage those funds to start addressing, you know, an emerging question out of what the data is telling us elsewhere. You can't do that under a government of Alberta, uh, funding process. so that was what amira was set up to do and i came over to alberta quite literally at the time that albertans decided for some reason all of a sudden to vote an ndp government um i guess probably because of something to do with someone named alice redford but um at any rate uh i worked for fred in the chief scientist's office for several years on provincial um monitoring and so i came over to osum when it had become osum and was no longer joseph okay so if i can summarize amira was attempting to do good but they're limited by their by the provincial government well the funding didn't like the relic of having an arm's length and and ndp is more of the mindset of we have the department why would we have outside or these you know side quest quasi departments representing us pull it all back in um and so i think there would be room and appetite with the current government to maybe reassess however um under the current regulation which comes up for renewal next year 2026 uh surrounding the oil sands monitoring program i think that there's likelihood that it will at least be um toyed with as a hey maybe that was a good idea and we we could learn from it and maybe leverage it uh the one problem that i always had with amira's model was there was not adequate consultation with indigenous groups um in in terms of why aren't you working with the communities that are directly impacted by oil sands development that live there um to help refine and and set priorities on what you know key monitoring elements are required to address right like if we're working towards assuring the public on a canadian scale maybe even international scale that the the region is being adequately monitored um that we are asking the right questions around elements like nathanic acids um at what point are you going to bring probably the most important voice into the room and amira really failed at that uh where i think the current model under the oil sands monitoring program is far more um efficient and effective in empowering indigenous voice at the table to set priorities and so again you know you've pointed out the the feds are definitely being driven towards um formalizing a regulatory framework specific to mine water release because if this is something that is going to be the inevitable outcome there has to be a federal presence there has to be a provincial presence um but at the same time and on a regional scale the communities are now saying that this is a problem like we need to understand nathanic acids much better um prior to any mine water release going back into the natural system right because i mean getting down away from all the complexities the questions arise is well is the water then safe to utilize i.e to harvest fish from can i even eat those fish uh is there deposition of nathanic acids on the landscape uh into things like traditional practices of berry collection um are these would be downstream downstream disconnected bodies of water that's right though they don't know how it's getting there but is it getting there is it safe because they've noticed problems yeah absolutely so that's all from a regional context and that's what i can speak to however um i think there's another element yet to be discussed here and that is there is also a plethora of regulatory requirements on industry um compliance requirements on a site by site basis i just don't have the empowerment to to speak on behalf of imperial cnrl etc those are those are conversations that would need to be had with those companies um however uh under pathways i.e cocia we also on top of the uh myself representing industry on the oil sense monitoring program we've also got internal um environmental priority areas such as a tailings priority area a water priority area a ghg priority area and so as nathanic acids relate to um site-specific monitoring because you can imagine that even if there isn't regulatory requirement it's in industry's best interest to have understanding as a baseline what what is happening as it relates to nathanic acids with this mine water uh treat ospw that that we want to release back into the system are we going to be running into a challenge immediately um even if there isn't a regulation put in place um at time of approval to to move forward with with this initiative there will be but you can bet your bottom dollar industry wants to understand are we going to be creating a problem for ourselves by having the uh uh availability of releasing that um treated water back into the natural system so um i you know i i i would typically save this offer till the end of a conversation but i'm just going to put it on the on the table right now that if you guys were comfortable with it if you've got even like a a two pager or one pager summary of everything you've already told me to present um we typically have what i'll i'll suggest is like a stop gate between folks like yourselves bringing an idea to it to the table and industry picking that idea up and and you know assessing it for a viability and whether or not it's uh worth a worthwhile uh endeavor to take to our member companies i.e the big six um as a consideration however i don't really believe in this if a good idea comes um i don't want to see it get lost uh potentially lost in the ether of you submit on pathways website this you know new technology and here are all the reasons why industry needs to take it seriously could be completely viable um however if the right person doesn't pick it up and look at it yeah it might get missed so time and so sorry i want to ask a question because from what what my observations have been and i'm not the expert here but there was the old analytic ways of testing nas there's the spider senses tingling for everybody going yeah this is nasty stuff everybody kind of knows that that is happening that way but the way that they've been testing the water has been kind of limited and the one thing that i see with with our biosensor the way that it can work is we can do way more tests way more cost effectively like you can almost re-architect um the testing methodology that you would go through that would probably increase um increase the the um visibility the visibility of what's happening throughout all parts of the water cycle from the time it's getting processed right through to you know there so that was the other thing that i i'm looking at this solution is is it shouldn't be compared apples to apples to what's done it might help with being able to do a bit of a re-architecture of how the testing is done which is going to give almost better resolution at all aspects and that's where greg and i were talking about the data layer right so if you're starting to do the testing and you and you get it into a a good queryable database you know that has geolocations time different things like that you can start to look and have much better um better decision making you know you you and even before the regular regulations allow them to release water to the wild they're going to have a just a treasure trove of data of how it's working the efficacy of all different types of things right so so that's where i see all that that's why he was about to make an offer and so you're you're selling when we i just had an offer no my apology it's all good so in my history i've seen that sometimes like you come up with a novel technology and then it gets applied the the old way so i think there's new ways that we can start to look at this so maybe maybe i was already maybe i wasn't hearing that from you but that's yeah i just so i no i appreciate the context i you're you're right sean uh but absolutely uh more information is better for me so really to to address what you're bringing forward here industry typically follows the uh the lead of in particular environment canada because the feds set the standard the feds set the rules the feds write the policy the province follows suit and then industry says okay will i guess will enact whatever technology is in front of us that adheres to even a caveman like system um whether that's the best system or not if the feds are saying it's what they use i guess it's what we'll use um but that's that's why i'm suggesting like from my perspective what you guys are presenting and what i've heard thus far what i've seen in in kind of digging around in uh sean's background on this work prior to this meeting is i think you guys have an idea that is absolutely worthwhile putting in front of uh the the the six companies that pathways represents in the in the frame that you've just contextualized it that look there's a better way to do this and you can get in front of the feds like i i i have found myself in my tenure with industry kind of hit my head against the wall uh proverbially in suggestion that you could be on the right side of this story if only you didn't just sit and wait for the feds of the province to tell you to do something there there is opportunity and uh hit or miss uh in in terms of response you know i think it depends on which company you're talking to where they're at in terms of their stock valuation and what court which quarter it is um but but ultimately when it comes to something as important as an emerging issue an emerging challenge such as an authentic acids this is going to be a problem i think the the big red lights are starting to shine um and industry isn't stupid so this is coming and thus i think it's timely that you fred put carolyn and yourselves in touch with me because i can at very least get you guys in the right room to make you know enough trouble to to turn this into you know something that builds and not only helps industry but but helps you guys with your research so we'll definitely take you up on that because although i thought being a funded by cnrl who's part of cosia and i went to a lot of cosia events i spoke at a cosia event about this years ago in the early stages through them they and the intention of cosia is to share ip and technologies right if one person they all have the same problems and if it benefits one it benefits them all so but through your direct links or the cnrl there's two paths that i thought eventually we would we would get um all the companies let's say to hear hear about it so that would be great yeah i mean i can certainly my voice is a little louder than one company because i've got all six at the same table um and i can pull in the relevant experts from tailings management from uh you know the the ospw team uh etc within the other environmental priority areas to ensure that um not only is this something that they're seeing but they're actually looking at if that makes sense yeah well that sounds perfect the the on that topic of like data visibility i know that in the early days there was publicly available napthonic acid testing data and i tried to find it and i found a bunch of incomprehensible excel table so it was there um it was publicly available but it wasn't really helpful is there still that goal of making that data accessible somewhat to the public or has that been sort of so anything collected under the oil sands monitoring program as an example um that is in particular if it's western science uh it's not collected by a community for traditional knowledge um initiative if it's western science um which primarily surface water quality um monitoring within the context of osm is western science it's undertaken by nancy glosier uh and her team through environment canada with some support from goa um all of that data is technically available whether it's on the osm data portal or um environment canada's various data portals uh it is technically available however is it available uh up to near real time no but it'd be an interesting data set that we might be able to grab so for sure yeah absolutely um that said uh as it's related to regulatory data again i can't i i don't know for sure and i certainly can't speak to individual companies but i'll tell you that the aer from my perspective is not great at making regulatory data available and in fact in some cases you might actually have to fight them for it oh well so the amira would have been more closely to the related to aer than osm so so aer was still around at that time i don't know if they were called aer but there was a regulatory arm of government of alberta at the time um and they had a seat at the amira table uh but amira was a separate entity from aer technically and and even now like on the on the oil stands monitoring governance um there's a an aer representative uh however aer doesn't have a vote in setting you know priority on what monitoring needs to be undertaken based on evaluation of previous year's data so they they sit there in a in a observational role but um they are at the table yeah could you tell me a little bit about what the regional monitoring program looks like so it sounds like you don't test on mine sites the lease lands of the companies you test in the surrounding area that's right can you just tell me like generally what that looks like so there are core thematic areas across surface water which includes quality and quantity benthic invertebrates fish monitoring um groundwater monitoring wetlands monitoring um and terrestrial biological monitoring those are the main like core western science programs uh and then oh i should also add there is an air pollutants monitoring program as well as a deposition monitoring program um and then there is a huge contingent that continues to grow um that is community-based monitoring which several communities have really great autonomy over setting the direction of their own monitoring programs whether it's you know an investigation of cause on a specific issue or a specific concern or if there's you know gap in knowledge uh for let's say surface water quality uh in the conklin or christina watershed area because e triple c who is undertaking the core monitoring doesn't have uh adequate monitoring stations or or sampling sites in the christina so conklin has decided we're going to develop our own monitoring program that works in collaboration with what e triple c is doing on the main stem and some of the other lakes in the region piggybacking off their methodologies but we are going to run our own program and we'll report that data back through oil sands monitoring but it'll be a conklin metis monitoring program oh that's what that refers to okay well i can see many a good fit with like the surface water the groundwater the wetlands the interesting part piece is the community-based monitoring um these kind of biosensors can be used in the field they can be adapted for like a handheld illuminometer or they can be engineered in a separate way but you could have a handheld device that could go into the field sample be taking you get a result from bacteria in a sort of freeze-dried cuvette and there's no release of any um bacteria to the environment but that might be something a community-based group would do or be interested for sure it's it was more a long-term goal and i thought it it felt awkward to be um engaging all the different communities and the conflicts that would come like you've got oil sands funding and i'm an academic and then um would i approach indigenous communities and see if they want to look into community-based monitoring on their own that just felt too complicated so i i guess i want to make the point that could be um the services would be like kind of send water to a lab or they could be adapted for in field use as well i don't know if that would be i don't know like i don't sometimes i don't know what the urgency is i know sometimes they like there's there isn't like we need to know an answer right now we need to know an answer within a period of a few days two weeks i don't have a sense for how urgent sometimes the results needs to be it just depends on it specific to communities it would depend on which communities you you were talking to um certainly for chip one uh in particular uh they would want this information yesterday yeah i've never spoke to any of the indigenous groups about it it's it's not there technologically so but it could be um but in in that area like even there in that breakdown that's a huge amount of water that you're testing and is it in like if this is the bullseye of the the development region is it all around i remember the deposition studies were a huge area that circumnavigated the the mind area um do you have an area that you target well in terms of the uh like the geospatial context of the oil sands monitoring program essentially we're talking about the cold lake oil sands region the athabasca oil sands region and the peace oil sands region so we're talking about an enormous area of of the province um and that extends like we've got community-based monitoring as far north as the border with uh the northwest territories and some of it actually bleeds into uh the delta into uh great slightly so like in fort smith um and so it it really it really just depends on um what the question is and where the communities are that that you know feel as though their traditional uh rights are being infringed upon by oil oil sands development and um if we we have technology and or if there's a viability um to to work to address those questions through a monitoring program um so with regard to let's just look at the athabasca as an example ecc has water quality monitoring sites i want to say upwards of 500 discrete sites um along the athabasca and at the mouth of you know some of the more targeted uh tributary rivers um as well as uh several um smaller lake monitoring programs um so within within the context of the overall oil sands region including all three of those um there's like we're talking in the thousands of water monitoring sites yeah i think that was uh something that we had two consultants and one of them was caroline but another one was someone who just consulted on in that area of water environmental monitoring and it was a colleague of mine and they had numbers like that and their report around the numbers of sites because we were asking them to say do you know how many sites there are do you know how many samples per site there are and the estimate of na tests was very vague but it was up and the upwards of it could be as high as thousands per year yeah or tens of thousands i can't i'd have to read the report i mean it was unclear but it could have been very high well and this was good for me because i thought that was actually happening on site of the oil sands um properties um this was more of the environmental testing around right so yeah this this is a very interesting data point here almost speaking to the field testing you know if you've got 500 discrete sites sitting in athabasca it'd be really nice if the people that are doing it could do it like on site get an instant result or get something like that's that's very valuable maybe on the properties maybe it's a different type of uh maybe you can build a lab up there or something like that i don't know just interesting things to think about so but do you think there's more or less being done on the mines area because they know it's there so like i know i don't know i don't have a hard sense of how much testing they do in their own facilities they have all different kinds of water structures and different stages it depends on the site and it's going to depend on what their regulatory requirements are um again because each each company is the whole bunch of shareholders and you know protecting their bottom line is number one one um i think you would be hard pressed to find any company that would say we just go out and monitor every five minutes because we just want to make sure right their goal number one is monitor as we're required to uh on a facility basis but that said specific monitor specific mining or in situ sites have very specific uh monitoring clauses within their compliance requirements um and that's not like blanketed across the regions uh it's very site specific so you might have a very similar um operation as a as a cnrl um mining facility and across a river suncor might have you know for all all rights and purpose the same setup but suncor is closer by 20 kilometers to fort mackay just arbitrarily making up an example and because they are 20 kilometers from fort mackay that um dictates additional monitoring in several different fields than what cnrl would be uh required to undertake um so it again like it's very it's very much so dependent on location the the type of facility how large that facility is how what kind of production numbers are coming out like barrel per day um how large of a tailings pond you've got on a facility um so you know there are certainly similarities across all but again it's it's again really hard for me to say you know site to site this is the kind of specific monitoring that's take undertaken on a weekly monthly annually annual basis um but i can say uh for sure um and especially now that um i want to release is like for lack of better phrasing kind of right on the cusp of of getting to a formalized state naphthonic assets are a problem that i don't think industry from my perspective has a has a really strong handle on and they need people that do to help them navigate and mitigate through what's going to be a very challenging outcome if we don't understand what we're putting back into the natural system and the government's allowing that that's a risk not only for industry but also for both layers of government because the communities have very good legal teams uh on on retainer so uh this is not something that industry can really play around with and just kind of wait on their hands and see what the feds or the province do yeah that see one of the thoughts one of the thoughts i had is it's better to know what you have in your tailings ponds should you have a spill that's as opposed to going i don't know you can go yes there was some nasty stuff there like yeah we better address that and and it looks better if you have a good handle on what you've spilled by accident than kind of going yeah we don't really know what was in there right like so and particularly with neptanic acid well you can't plead ignorance because you know based on any of the reading you do on the internet about naphthonic acid it's been identified it's not regulated but it's been identified that's probably nasty and it has to be there so it's in process to get there um and that was one of the arguments that i was thinking that's good about being doing more tests and the re-architecture of how you're testing and and knowing what's happening throughout the water cycle that you have on the plant so when something happens you you can advise your downstream stakeholders about that right so and that's that's asset protecting that's that's yeah you know that that is a financial discussion whether it is not actually a financial discussion on the surface or not because if your shareholder doesn't have um you know absolute confidence in your ability to manage an environmental situation like what we saw with curl which was very poorly managed um that impacts your stock value at the end of the day so if you know what you have in a tailings pond if you know what's in there um down to the you know parameter by parameter that enables you empowers you to set up um safety net mechanisms to mitigate if there is a spill okay there's a spill this this is the you know this is the set of steps we need to to take now to combat the the the uh the outfall of that spill um and it might be different from one tailings pond to the next based on the uh quantification of just how much nastiness you have in there yeah you've definitely affirmed our sense of like the imminence the scale the importance the sort of lack of clarity in some ways that's the opportunity there basically it's there's definitely a major you're knocking on the door at a very very timely uh moment uh i i you know i can't see this going in any other direction other than we need to take methanic acids quite seriously what is available to industry writ large um to to mitigate our misunderstanding or the vacuum of knowledge around um what nanothetic acids are doing um and how we can you know best practice manage them as we're putting them back into the natural environment so again like i i appreciate we only have a few minutes left here but i um if you can send me uh just like some kind of a summary i'm not asking you to provide your like the secrets and how the sauce gets made by any means but what like what is the idea what what have you done that like what are the results of of the pilot project um you know at least initially telling you uh as you've worked with cnrl um because i want to be able to take this put it on the the desk of you know several people internally and say this is a conversation we need to have with these folks i want to bring your tailings management folks into that room and hear sean and his team uh uh speak speak about this because i think that there's something in front of you here that is worthwhile um moving forward so so ty who would the audience be because before you say anything yes we can do that we will so we will we will but who would the audience be because sean's got some awesome uh decks that make my brain hurt right because he gets right into the bits well we call it bits and bytes but he gets into the bugs and and what's going on um but you know i also want to look at it necessarily like kind of from the business model perspective or the the business implication or because i you know with working with a lot of the academics they're awesome because they get right into the weeds but i want somebody to be able to go yeah that's a really good idea and i want to be able to consume that or i want to take that on and it's on bite-sized chunks for layman people like me right so who would be the audience on me me too um so it would come it would come to the technical tables first okay uh so like our tailings guys our water uh environmental uh priority area guys my my guys around the monitoring table i would bring all of those um folks together to look at um you know the the technical viability uh what is it that you guys are doing with the technology and you know what how does this address the emerging problem of netthetic assets management they then take it internally to their companies and it goes up chain to probably a different level of conversation which is what you're referring to now we're talking about the business viability and okay our technical folks are supportive they think this is a great idea how does that look dollars and cents so that i can then sell it up to our you know steerco board or whatever uh board is making um environmental spending decisions on a company by company basis and many of those decisions get made within the walls of uh pathways cocia anyway so is pathways a new name because that that was the name that it was i was unfamiliar with yeah so pathways was started four years ago um it's it's the same six companies that make up cocia um however the the mandate of pathways is carbon sequestration um to get uh the oil sands to a net zero uh platform in alignment with uh some of the not some of the the federal um goals for for net zero um for for the country and so the original idea and i i think this is what they're still chasing is uh by 2050 um to have fulsome net zero out of the oil sands uh by way of carbon capture process they essentially want to take all the carbon that they're generating um pulling all of that fine sticky mock out of the ground and pump it through a pipe down to cold lake and store it um underneath cold lake in these huge natural uh um poor spaces in uh the bedrock uh sorry what would get buried the carbon the carbon co2 emissions co2 yes that's the carbon capture that they were talking about right that's there's been a bunch of investment in that yeah and so they pulled coastia into pathways because it was the same six companies uh that are they're going down this venture uh rabbit hole and they thought you know why have a separate entity called cocia when we're going to be leveraging some of that brain power to help with the foundational project under pathways anyway so we got kind of amalgamated in however i'll be quite honest with you we have one floor of an office in downtown calgary and on one side it's all the cocia science geeks and on the other side it's all like the cons and government relations and uh pathways folks do they have their own carbon capture technology or does the name carbon uh engineering ring about or how they're capturing i'll be honest with you i'm not involved with this project whatsoever and that's on purpose because i work quite closely with many of the first nations and metis communities uh that have a problem with what pathways is doing so i am kind of ostrich head in the sand on purpose so that i'm not carrying any potential conflict when i'm engaging with uh communities that might be in um direct you know challenge over what pathways is intending to do well i don't want to go over time respect everyone's time i i got a lot out of this i don't know if gregor yeah do you have any questions no this would be awesome i i knew i was just going to be listening mostly through this this has been fantastic ty this this this was really helpful for me because i've actually been mostly talking amongst these guys and um i had i had a bunch of theories and and you validated a bunch of stuff so it was very very helpful i really appreciate it i hope nothing too negative no no it's it's good because you know the spider senses are tingling like the timing's right the technology's right we think we've got something here we see the problem you know um yeah now we need to start talking to people like you and people in industry that to validate that so this was this was big for me because uh right you know i'm the business one more thing one more thing just to clarify i think i understood what you were saying because the the bureaucracy or the layers they're complicated but when you were saying get if you could get out ahead of the feds did did you mean if you can we go and present to cosia we convince all six this is hypothetical you convince all six oil sands companies this is a really good technology to use for an absenteeic acid monitoring for all these reasons and then does it work where industry will say to the government we think this is an interesting approach to use in addition to these other tools um for federal mandates like does it does the gut does industry influence the feds or do they do it on their own yeah we definitely influence the feds so going to to you and the oil sense companies is getting ahead of the government because you're you're going to the source of who really needs to use the technology further we have the money yeah the feds don't so the feds will put forward you know a regulatory framework that might dictate you will use a technology that will enable you to you know have you know a specific understanding to a you know a specific degree of certainty over nathetic acids as as a specific parameter that needs to be monitored however they won't offer anything beyond that you know this is what our our federal scientists are doing to manage uh nathetic acids monitoring but if industry has in their pocket a technology that goes above and beyond what the feds are going to regulate the industry to and it's more cost effective and it's better in terms of the results that it's producing not only is that a money saving exercise for industry but they also kind of get to go like this at the federal government which the industry in which i work for that is a very sweet victory for them so it's something that they're very uh there's a lot of appetite for um if you can if you can tell the feds that you're doing it better than then they think you should um that's a new story absolutely cool love it all right well that was great thank you for the time yeah thank you very much i'll reach out again with it a two pager i'll appreciate that with these guys we'll put something together and then we'll um leave it in your capable hands and and i will commit to once you guys get back in touch with me with something uh i will commit to ensuring i keep you up to date as any news uh comes forward with regard to um you know potential meeting with um you know uh tailings management groups the water environmental priority area the monitoring priority area um i i certainly will ensure that whatever information you can provide to me gets in the right hand so that we can keep this conversation going and evolving awesome now ty just one thing i would like oh go ahead john i just don't want to step on any toes at cnrl is my only thought like um i do have close communication with them but um you know i can imagine like they get invited to a meeting to hear something that they've been funding for five years and they're like why didn't we know about this or something uh like that i'll touch base with my uh i know the um vp of environmental uh what's his title vp environment environment management or something like that anyway um i can provide you with the names of my you know contacts there too yeah that's that's totally yeah for sure um and i'm happy to touch base with them first before you know ringing the the dinner bell for everybody um just to make sure that there is no toe stepping um yeah it's probably a minor detail but i thought i'd mention it it's it's it's a it's a good point awesome okay well i'll i'll i'll share my contact dates um uh sean's kind of the brainchild of all this i may be the quarterback coordinating sort of all the different things as well just make sure that we keep moving the ball forward so yeah for sure uh absolutely send it along i'm um happy to chat anytime and uh yeah i think you guys have uh you got something here so that's exciting thank you really appreciate that thank you so much yeah thank you thanks all right well have a great rest of your day it's wonderful to meet you uh virtually i'll talk to you soon okay yeah take care bye bye bye let's go from right away