## Be able to confidently answer your stakeholders’ questions
1. **What** - What are my core business activities - my Business Capabilities?
2. **What** - What systems, people and processes implement them?
3. **Which** - Which of those do I compete on?
4. **How** - How mature is each one?
#### For Many Years Business and IT Spoke Different Languages
Externally, business focussed on products, partners and customer segments. Internally, on business process re-engineering or outsourcing.

Meanwhile IT concentrated on technology infrastructure, applications and data.

Where IT and business did touch, the emphasis was on defining formalized hand-offs, usually expressed as IT Services.

IT was conceived as a supporting layer that underpinned those business processes. But like oil and water, the two never mixed. Many organizations still model their architecture this way.

The problem is this ‘segregated’ view doesn’t adequately meet the strategic planning needs of either business or IT.

For example, re-engineering a business process to improve customer experience is hugely constrained when a big part of that customer experience is the performance of the organization’s own IT systems.

In the same way, IT planners trying to optimize IT value and efficiency realized they couldn’t do so without a solid understanding of the functionality the business required.

After years defining IT service models or logical application models it became increasingly clear they were largely attempting to describe their organization’s business model.

If information technology represents the automation of the business’s operations – and increasingly the digitalisation of its products and services – then using different languages to describe the same requirements is practically a guarantee of misalignment.
##### IT and Business Are Two Sides of the Same Coin 
So somewhere between business processes and IT services another concept has steadily gained influence over recent years. One that simultaneously describes the concerns of both business and IT planners: **Business capabilities**.

As so often has been the case, conventional architecture and planning methods have lagged behind reality. Digital, Agile and cross-functional product teams mean that business and technology are now well and truly mixed.

To stay relevant, strategy and architecture teams must keep pace.
#### BCM Benefits
- Provides a complete list of your business capabilities.
- Provides a common vocabulary to use across the organization.
- Gains Better business engagement by focusing on business strategy and capabilities rather than technology.
- Organizes what your company does into manageable pieces for performance analysis and understanding where improvements can be made. For example, investment analysis, benefit analysis, and strategic change.
- More efficient annual budget and planning process.
- Insights into organizational impact of change.
- Better alignment through collaboration.
- Laying the foundation for subsequent steps in the Enterprise Architecture Plan (e.g: Business Capability Realization, Application Rationalization, etc.).
#### Tangible Outcomes
- List of business capabilities and respective capability metadata (market differentiation).
- Capabilities and Expert relationships.
- Business Capability Data Quality Dashboard.
- Enterprise Architecture Business Capability Dashboard.
- Enterprise Architecture Business Capability Presentation.
#### Key Questions
- What are the business capabilities in my organization?
- How mature are your capabilities?
- What level of maturity of our capabilities?
- How are our capabilities implemented?
- What capabilities are at risk?
- What is the aggregated cost of our key capabilities?
- What is the aggregated complexity for my key capabilities?
- Who are the experts in those capabilities?