Going by the narrow definition of constraint, ​constraints can only be located in a few specific places:

- **Market Constraint:** is where a company captures the bulk of the market and runs out of further space to grow. For example, De Beers controlled >90% of the global diamond market in the late 1980s. Hence, their growth was governed by the overall size of the diamond market. Regulated electrical utilities or office productivity software are other examples of a market constraint. This type of constraint is quite rare.

- **Demand Constraint:** when market demand at current prices is less than the ability to produce the product or service. This can be indicated by always delivering on-time/in full with no delivery backlog in a make to order environment or maintaining 100% availability of all products / services with negligible wait time in a make-to-stock environment. For example, it is very rare for customers to face retail stockout on popular brands of toothpaste.

- **Internal Capacity Constraint:** when the current ability to deliver is less than market demand for those products or services. This is usually accompanied by a backlog of sales orders, low on-time delivery due date performance, and/or stockouts. But the real test of an internal capacity constraint is very high utilization of at least one internal resource (95%+). Note that lots of unsold finished goods in storage may indicate that there is more available capacity than you think!

- **Supply Constraint:** when the system is unable to meet all demand placed upon it due to shortages in the supply available in the market. In most genuine cases, the systemwide consumption of that material, component or item is very high e.g. >50% of the global supply. For example, certain rare earth elements have dwindling availability globally, and can only be found in a single mine located in China. This type of supply constraint is fairly uncommon.  

- **Supplier Constraint:** when the system is unable to meet some demand due to shortages in the supplies by vendors. Most often, what appear to be material constraints are actually caused by internal purchasing policies and practices, rather than a genuine unavailability in the market. Such policies might include restricting purchases to a pre-approved vendor list, only purchasing from lowest price suppliers, extended payment terms, late payment practices, etc. A famous example of a supplier constraint happened at the Royal Philips Plant in Albuquerque, New Mexico. In 2000, a fire at the plant reduced the global supply of key semiconductor chips used in Nokia and Ericsson's flagship cell phones. Through quick action, Nokia was able to tie down additional supply agreements and purchase some of these chips on the open market, effectively locking Ericsson out of the high-end cell phone market for an entire product cycle.

- ​**Cash Constraint:** when the ability to purchase inputs is less than market demand due to inability to pay suppliers. In other words, there is sufficient customer orders, delivery capacity, workers, etc. accompanied by a shortage of inputs/materials/components/etc. Some suppliers may have blacklisted the organization due to late payments, and/or disputes may have been taken to court. In other words, most supplies are available on a payment-first basis only. Therefore a small increase in cash usually can increase sales, throughput, on-time delivery and available cash in a relatively short amount of time, usually less than 13 weeks.

## Can There be Multiple Constraints?

Any given organization or system is usually not constrained by too many different resources at the same time. Still, there may be more than one independent paths of flow. **Every independent path of flow will have its own constraint.**   
   
This is why it can seem so difficult to identify the constraint in very large organizations such as the government of a country or trillion-dollar conglomerates, because they usually have many different independent flows going on at the same time. As the definition of the “system” becomes too complex, the word "constraint" begins to lose its clear meaning.

## What is the Difference Between Bottleneck and Constraint?

A bottleneck is any resource with lower capacity than the current load. If several bottlenecks are present in the same line of flow, the one with the _least_ capacity is the constraint.  
​  
​Note that a constraint can also be a resource that is NOT a bottleneck! This happens when the resource has, on average, more than enough capacity to process the current load. Nevertheless some sales are delayed or lost due to inadequate exploitation of and subordination to that capacity. Examples of this include mis-prioritization, late release, poor synchronization of components to be assembled (lack of full kits), early release (causing excessive multitasking), etc.