A Capacity-Constraint-Resource (CCR) limits the total Throughput generated by the organization. CCRs may not be active all the times, but they have potential to become active at any time. For example, an injection moulding factory with multiple machines and many different finished products might have only one mould of a given type. Most of the time, this mould does not limit the capacity of the factory, but if they receive several large orders for that specific type of product at the same time, it creates a constraint.  
  
Many times, organizations have a seasonal CCR leading up to major cycles such as the Christmas shopping season in the United States, Diwali Holidays in India, Chinese New Year, etc. It is useful to identify CCR(s) in advance so that proper planning and order promise date quotation can be done.   
  
Most resources should not be permitted to become CCRs because their value is so low compared to other resources. Ideally, CCRs should be resources that are very expensive or difficult to elevate. Often expanding the CCR would involve high Capital Investment and/or Operating Expense, for example a paper making machine or steel furnace. Other times the CCR might be a scarce skill such as an SAP ABAP programmer or aluminum welder. Still other times the CCR might have very long process time within the overall cycle time, such as with a heat treatment oven. The location/sequence of the constraint within the routing sequence can make some difference – but this is not usually the most important issue. In certain environments, a particular type of skill might be very hard to find and replace, such as a doctor, chartered accountant, aluminum welder, or high-end engineering resource. Other operations can be very difficult to control, such as automotive painting booths. ​But eventually, the choice of CCRs usually boils down to the first characteristic: the cost and difficulty of elevation.